[READING]
Scientists have long believed that bees existed up to some 200 million years ago. This notion has recently come under some speculation because of a lack of any significant evidence to support this theory. Key missing evidence includes fossil records, the lack of flowering plants to support bee life, and recently revealed discrepancies in the fossil record. 
To date, the oldest known bee discovered is a 100 million-year-old specimen preserved in amber. This ancient specimen, trapped in tree resin, is at least 35-45 million years older than any other known bee fossil. What is concerning scientists is the lack of any fossil evidence older than 100 million years. Fossil records for other plant, animal and insect species are quite complete, however, the bee is missing a similarly lengthy record. 
The ancient world lacked flowering plants. This is important because bees are pollen-dependent and rely on flower pollen and nectar for energy, protein and other nutrients. Flora in the ancient world 200 million years ago were mostly dominated by conifers which did not flower or produce the pollen and nectar necessary for bee survival. Lacking this food source, it is highly skeptical that bees could have existed 200 million years ago. 
Several of the fossil records being studied by scientists have also brought to light major discrepancies that exist between modern beehives and beehives of the ancient world. Specifically, ancient beehives seem to have a different organization and structure compared to that of modern beehives. This variance in evidence in the fossil record has led experts to speculate that these fossils are not fossils of beehives, but rather nests of another insect species. 

[LISTENING]
Using the limited fossil record and apparent lack of evidence to deny the existence of bees 200 million years ago is faulty. The reasons put forth in your textbook do not adequately explain what we currently know about the history of the bee.
For instance, 200 million years ago, the earth did not have resin-producing trees to trap insects and make fossils. Other methods for fossil creation involve a dead organism being covered by layers and layers of sediment. The conditions for this type of fossil creation are particularly fickle, and many organisms escape, leaving a fossil record. This can completely explain why we don’t have records of bees 200 million years ago.
While it is true that bees are pollen-dependent, it is also true that bees can find other sources of food besides flowering plants. It has been widely observed that bees are attracted to trees that excrete honeydew, a sugary excretion from plant sap. This honeydew can be found in certain types of coniferous trees, including pine trees and certain types of oak. This behavior would suggest that bees don’t completely rely on flowering plants for nutrition and energy.
Finally, let’s take a look at the purported differences in beehive structure found in modern-day and ancient beehives. Chemical analyses of these fossilized beehives have revealed that the modern and ancient beehives are all products of the same species. Although beehives have undergone modifications over millennia, this has followed the evolution and adaptations seen in ancient and modern bees.