[READING]
The world has been radically transformed by digital technology and many industries have incorporated technology advancements to streamline and optimize their operations. one field that has not yet fully embraced the digital age is the medical industry. many proponents advocate modernizing the medical industries record keeping system so that digitizing patient health records becomes the new industry standard. shifting from paper medical records and physical filing to electronic medical records and digital filing will have considerable benefits.
Firstly, digitizing paper records and doing away with wasteful physical records will save money. the cost of keeping physical paper records, to name but a few, includes the cost of paper, printer ink, and physical storage filing systems. switching to electronic medical records will eliminate these expenses and reduce costs, benefiting medical office record keepers and reducing operation overhead. in the case of large hospitals that treat hundreds of unique patients monthly, these cost reductions could translate into millions of dollars in savings.
Another benefit is safety. in the case of physical paper records, doctors obtain patient health history by having patients fill out forms about medical history, including previous surgeries, drugs they take on a regular basis, and so on. if a patient forgot to accurately provide information, or if information was not provided because it seemed unimportant, then doctors would not have a complete and accurate picture of patient health. having electronic health records can reduce errors, improve patient safety and support better patient outcomes by ensuring that each doctor has the most up-to-date and accurate patient medical history.
One more benefit of maintaining electronic medical records is the possible uses for medical research. submitted digital records can be used to accumulate and integrate patient records from geographically separate areas. this data can be compiled into a single database for medical research that encompasses patients from around the world at the click of a button. the monitoring and analysis of electronic medical records have the potential to make every patient a participant in a vast, ongoing clinical trial, pinpointing treatments and side effects that would otherwise be hard to discern.

[LISTENING]
The reading passage is correct in advocating the adoption of electronic medical records to simplify record keeping. And yes, modernizing the paper filing system will have a few benefits. But, there are a few substantial reasons why it will be impossible to completely eliminate paper records from the medical industry.
To begin with, electronic medical records cannot significantly reduce office operation costs because doctors will still keep paper records in addition to their electronic records. In many cases, hospital administration, doctors, and insurance companies require papers with signatures on them for official use. So even though some doctor offices or hospitals will use electronic filing systems, they will also maintain paper records in parallel.
Second, electronic record systems will not entirely eliminate record-keeping errors. Human error still exists in the computer age. For example, during medical check-ups, doctors still take notes with a paper and pen. These notes are then passed on to other office staff, that, in turn, digitize it and enter data into databases. We all know that doctors have notoriously illegible handwriting, which could be misinterpreted by office staff and incorrectly input into record systems. In this way, errors would still find their way into a digital record system despite all the best efforts to eliminate them.
Third, the notion that all these electronic medical records could be used in some sort of integrated and large-scale research is flawed. Patient medical record privacy is protected by law and not to be shared publicly. Aside from the legal aspect, it is doubtful that many patients would be willing to give legal consent to research teams because, obviously, this information is very personal and sensitive. This legal obstacle will limit the number of patient participants and not represent a comprehensive data pool for researchers.