[READING]
Mammals can be divided into two groups: marsupials and placentals. Although both groups are mammals, there are several features that distinguish the two groups. One of the biggest differences between marsupials and placentals is the gestation and nurturing periods and process of each group. Essentially, marsupials spend significantly more time nursing and caring for their young after birth than placentals. Placentals, on the other hand, invest more time and energy in pregnancy. This has led many biologists to speculate that marsupials are inferior to placentals for a variety of reasons.
Marsupial offspring spend a significant portion of their developing period in the abdominal pouch of their mother. This leads to slower development of specific organs and body systems compared with placental mammals. Most critically, immune systems of marsupial young are neither given sufficient time to develop, nor are they given sufficient time to be introduced to maternal antigens which stimulate the production of helpful antibodies. This compromised and underdeveloped immune system puts marsupials at risk and is evidence of their inferiority.
Some marsupials lack certain abilities that allow them to adapt to the surrounding environment. For example, the joey, a small marsupial, is unable to regulate its own body temperature and relies on external heat sources. For this reason, the mother must carry the young joey in her pouch to keep it warm until it develops fur as an adult. This weakness in survivability opens up both the carrying mother and the young joey to danger.
Marsupials have also demonstrated their inability to compete with placentals. In almost all the ecosystems in which marsupials exist, marsupial species have been in a steady decline to placental species which, on the other hand, have demonstrated robust and steady population growth. This trend speaks to the inability of marsupials to adequately compete for resources and niche environments.

[LISTENING]
Contrary to the popular belief that marsupials are inferior to placentals, there is strong evidence that marsupials are just as well-equipped, if not better equipped, to survive as their placental counterparts. Statements regarding marsupial immune system deficiencies do not hold much merit as marsupial immune systems are quite well developed.
Marsupial offspring spend ample time in the mother’s nurturing pouch drinking milk. The mother’s milk is fortified with all the nutrition growing young require to reach healthy adulthood. Furthermore, the milk also contains all requisite antigens young offspring need, passed on directly from the mother, to stimulate a healthy immune system. Young offspring are thus able to build resistances to disease in the same manner that placental mammals do.
It is true that some marsupial species do not adapt to surrounding environments like placental mammals adapt. However, this fact does not imply that marsupials are inferior in any way. Let’s take the joey for example. When faced with decreasing environmental temperatures, the joey will in turn reduce its own body temperature accordingly. Reducing its body temperature is in fact a very efficient method to reduce energy expenditure and reduce the amount of food required to maintain bodily functions.
And as far as placentals out-competing marsupials for habitat space and resources, one only needs to look to Australia for evidence of marsupial evolution and robust population growth. Australia has a long and well-documented history of marsupial populations coexisting alongside placental mammals. Over the course of many hundreds of years scientists have noted the ability of marsupials to surpass placentals in competition for resources and niche environments. This is clearly evidence that marsupials can in fact not only live side-by-side with placentals, but also surpass their rivals.