[READING]
Anasazi Indians were an ancient Native American culture located in the present-day American Southwest who built and inhabited pueblo structures. Between the twelfth to thirteenth centuries, most of the pueblo buildings were abandoned. Archeologists have scavenged the area looking for clues as to why these structures were abandoned and what happened to a formerly prosperous population. While many theories exist as to what happened to the Anasazi people, serious and prolonged drought seems to be the best explanation as to their disappearance.
Scientists have found many clues from looking at tree rings in the area which can provide insight into past climate data, including temperature and rainfall. In the period between the twelfth and thirteenth century, this area experienced three extended periods of drought as a result of global warming. When the cycle of droughts began, Anasazi agriculture production was unable to keep up with consumption demand. Without sufficient rainfall, it was impossible to harvest enough food to support the population.
Excavations have revealed the construction of large dams and reservoirs along the irrigation system in the Anasazi region. The presence of these large construction projects indicates that the Anasazi people were trying to manipulate the region's water supply to support their growing water needs. However, evidence indicates reservoir capacity was not adequate enough to deal with extended droughts. Facing three long-term, back-to-back droughts rendered the reservoirs useless.
Finally, with the growth of population as the Anasazi civilization reached its peak, people continually had to compete with each other for resources. The presence of sustained periods of drought made it harder and harder for people to compete for limited resources. Thus, faced with the possibility of starvation and death, they chose to migrate to lands to the north and east where climate conditions were more favorable.

[LISTENING]
The abandoned pueblos and disappearance or migration of the Anasazi people is still a mystery. There are numerous opinions regarding this phenomenon, but placing the sole blame on severe drought is incorrect.
First, although global warming may have contributed to a decrease in overall rainfall for the region, the trees examined within the Anasazi territory all indicate that rainfall over this period of time was adequate. That is to say that there was enough rainfall in the region to support the community’s drinking and agricultural needs.
Secondly, according to archeological evidence, dam and reservoir construction appears to have been completed at least 100 years prior to the disappearance of the Anasazi people. This would seem to indicate that the reservoir usage was already well integrated into the Anasazi lifestyle. Furthermore, analysis of the reservoirs has revealed them to be vast in size with the capability of sustaining agricultural needs and allowing the population to survive a 50-year drought.
Lastly, there are a variety of reasons why a civilization could disappear, and there is strong evidence that indicates that regional conflict and strife drove people out of the area to seek safer ground. It is now understood that the Anasazi, as well as the neighboring tribes, often clashed in bloody and violent battles. The current theory is that the Anasazi and a neighboring tribe fought a mutually ruinous war that which resulted in the sudden disappearance of the Anasazi people. As you can see, there are just too many discrepancies to label drought as the sole deciding factor in the sudden evacuation of tens of thousands of Anasazi.