[READING]
The Akkadian Empire was an ancient empire centered in the city of Akkad and its surrounding region in ancient Mesopotamia. The Empire of Akkad collapsed in 2154 BC, but historians are still trying to determine the exact cause. There are three main theories historians have developed.
First, Akkadian bureaucratic and military expenditure was funded by taxation, generally from the agrarian population. These heavy tariffs levied against an already economically burdened lower class had the effect of causing commodity inflation to accelerate to catastrophic proportions. Eventually, no longer being able to suffer the burden of increasing military expenditures and a growing government, the Akkadian people revolted. The popular uprising toppled the governing forces which broke the Akkadian Empire into fragmented, smaller city-states that could not survive.
Second, it has recently been suggested that the regional decline at the end of the Akkadian period was associated with rapidly increasing aridity and failing rainfall in the region. Evidence also indicates other severe changes to regional weather patterns and considerable degradation of farmland. This in turn obviously led to diminished crop yields and reduced grain reserves. In a short period of time, citizens of the Akkadian Empire no doubt starved, and the empire, with no people, fell.
A third possible explanation for the empire's fall is trade disruptions. Akkadian domestic and regional trade was very well developed in both value and volume. Ancient Mesopotamia was dotted by many small city-states, all of whom fought one another over farmland, grazing pastures, and access to water. Raiding barbarian tribes and wars with some of the bordering 32 neighboring kingdoms, combined with civil strife, further impaired trade relationships. The empire, already destabilized from climate change and disruption in trade, weakened to the point where invasions and rebellions could no longer be held off, resulting in the fall of the Akkadian Empire.

[LISTENING]
The fall of the Akkadian Empire is indeed a mystery; however, the theories put forth in the reading all fall short of fully explaining just how the empire ended.
First, Akkad had a centralized state army, while the other surrounding states did not have an organized and official army. Records point to the Akkadian army’s previous and numerous successfully quelled civilian uprisings. No doubt, the poorly equipped and disorganized civilian population stood no chance against the well-trained and organized state army. For the same reason, it is also very unlikely that the Akkadian army would be easily defeated by unorganized barbarian raiders. Additionally, archeological evidence indicates that the surrounding city walls had been destroyed long before the fall of the empire. This would seem to signify that the city was not sacked by outside forces.
Second, records and archeological digs have revealed that the Akkadian Empire had a well-established irrigation system which allowed the distribution and application of water to land and soil in times of inadequate rainfall. Archeological evidence also points to the adequate reserves of grain and other provisions stored in granaries and small silos. In the face of this evidence, attributing the fall of the Akkadian Empire to drought and reduced crop yields is simply ignoring the archeological facts.
Third, trade imbalance between empires and surrounding city-states has always favored the stronger empires, and such was the case with the Akkadian Empire and her surrounding smaller, weaker city-states. While it is true that Akkad had trade imbalances with most neighbors, Akkad had also developed well-established and prosperous trade routes with neighboring countries to the east, such as India and other partners along the Arabian Peninsula. Attributing the fall of the Akkadian Empire to trade disruptions isn’t wholly accurate.