[READING]
A transient lunar phenomenon, often abbreviated as TLP, is a short-lived color or change in appearance on the surface of the Moon. Most instances of TLPs are described as increases in the overall luminosity of a spot on the Moon; however, sometimes observers report a decrease in the region's brightness or even a change in its color to red or violet. Even today, with the development of technology and observational equipment, TLPs are poorly understood, and scientists are not able to pinpoint the physical mechanism responsible for their creation.
One possible explanation is that many transient lunar phenomena might not be associated with the Moon itself but could be a result of unfavorable observing conditions and observation errors. For instance, some reported TLPs are for objects near the field of telescope observation which the observer mistakenly attributes to the Moon. Other non-lunar explanations include the viewing of Earth-orbiting satellites and meteors or observational error.
Another possible explanation for a TLP is impact events such as meteor strikes. Impact flashes from such events have been detected from multiple and simultaneous observations. There is no doubt that the Moon has been the victim of numerous high-speed collisions, as the pockmarked surface indicates, and there is a high possibility that TLPs are a result of a meteor hitting the surface and causing a bright flash.
A third possible explanation for TLPs is light reflected from a type of rock found on the surface of the Moon. This rock type catches light from the Sun and can be observed from Earth. Depending on the angle at which light strikes these rocks, the observed TLP may last a few seconds or even a few hours. These rocks come in a variety of colors and could explain why TLPs are often observed as a red or violet color shift.

[LISTENING]
While it is true that the fundamental physical mechanism responsible for transient lunar phenomena is purely understood, the three explanations posited in the reading are all inadequate in properly explaining these occurrences.
First, if TLP observation was truly from failures in equipment and observational errors, then it would stand to reason that these phenomena should appear randomly wherever observers turned their faulty equipment. However, all TLPs have been spotted on the surface of the Moon and have consistently appeared in only two locations on the surface.
Second, meteor strikes are not a very convincing solution to the TLP mystery. The light created as the result of a meteor impact lasts for only one second. The light is a brief, bright flash, and then, it is gone. TLP light, on the other hand, has been observed to last an average of 20 minutes. Additionally, TLP discoveries have never coincided with meteor showers near the Moon. These two reasons make TLPs from meteors an unlikely possibility.
The third possibility put forth in the reading is also rather preposterous. Although Moon rocks are able to reflect light, the reflected light is very weak. Furthermore, these rocks are extremely rare and only make up a small percentage of surface cover on the Moon. Most Moon observers make observations at night when the Moon is reflecting sunlight. The reflected sunlight is much more luminous than that of any rock and, therefore, can’t be used to explain transient lunar phenomena. Scientists will have to continue to look for a more appropriate explanation.