[READING]
Corn rootworms are a widespread type of insect that are one of the most destructive predators of maize in the United States. As their name suggests, corn rootworms feed on corn roots and cause severe damage to corn as both larvae and adults. Newly hatched larvae feed primarily on root hairs and outer root tissue. As larvae grow and their food requirements increase, they burrow into the roots to feed. Farmers can employ several methods to combat these pests.
The first, and by far the most commonly used method of pest control, is to apply insecticides to soil in areas that have a history of crop damage. Insecticides target insect eggs and larvae and have the potential to eradicate an entire generation of pest ensuring that the insect is unable to reproduce.
Another effective method to control the corn rootworm pest is planting corn crops earlier in the growing season. Rootworm larvae typically hatch in late may or early June, with maturation typically occurring in August. By planting corn crops a few weeks earlier into the growing season, young rootworm larvae find they are unable to eat mature corn roots, and farmers can avoid a majority of root damage from larvae. Without a suitable host plant, the rootworm will soon starve to death.
The final method used by farmers to prevent corn rootworm damage is crop rotation. Crop rotation is the practice of growing a series of dissimilar or different types of crops in the same area in sequential seasons. In addition to replenishing soil nutrients, crop rotation is effective in mitigating the build-up of pests. Corn rootworm larvae must feed on corn roots to develop and mature properly. If they hatch in a field without corn, they starve. For example, alternating corn crops with soybean crops will effectively starve the corn rootworm larvae, ensuring that they never fully mature to adulthood.

[LISTENING]
Your textbook states that insecticide use, planting crops earlier in the growing season, and crop rotation are all effective methods to combat the destructive corn rootworm. However, this simply is not the case.
First, using insecticides is never one hundred percent effective. There will always be a few pests that survive the application of insecticide. The concern is that the rootworms which survive could build a tolerance that, if passed to offspring, could allow the pests to eventually survive a full dose of the insecticide. This scenario has already been observed in many areas where populations of corn rootworm have become resistant to certain insecticides. Over time, insecticide use will have a limited, if any, impact on insect populations.
Second, with respect to planting crops earlier in the growing season, there is always the potential for crop damage incurred by adverse weather conditions such as frost damage, cold weather, or snowstorms. In this case, the damage from adverse weather and corn rootworms are the same, so that planting earlier in the season does not help the farmer in the end.
Finally, while crop rotation is a consistent and economical means of controlling rootworms, rootworm eggs are able to remain dormant in the soil for up to two years. This dormancy mechanism is used as a means to survive regularly occurring unfavorable environmental conditions. In the case of alternating soy and corn crops, the rootworm eggs can remain in the soil for two years before hatching, thereby avoiding the soybean year. Overall, all three rootworm prevention and control methods mentioned in the reading are inadequate to completely eradicate the rootworm pest.