[READING]
In 1939, an archaeological excavation in southeastern England revealed a grave dating to the 7th-century C.E. The grave contained a 13-meter-long ship filled with jewelry and other precious objects. The presence of such impressive artifacts made it likely that the person buried in the grave had been one of the kings who ruled the region, known as East Anglia. While it has long been unclear which East Anglian king this was, most historians now believe that the grave belonged to King Raedwald. 
First, the dating of the objects seems to fit the date of King Raedwald's death. Gold coins found in the grave have been dated to the 620s, and there is a historical record that indicates that King Raedwald died in 624. Such close coincidence of the dates strongly supports the theory that the grave is King Raedwald's. 
Second, the grave is so grand and the objects it contained are so splendid that it appears that the person buried in the grave was particularly powerful king. This also fits with what is known about King Raedwald. Raedwald was more powerful than East Anglian kings who came before and after him; in fact, Raedwald was so powerful that kings from other regions of England paid him tribute and were subject to his rule. 
Third, Raedwald was the first East Anglian king to convert to Christianity; earlier East Angian kings were adherents of other religions. The grave contains silver bowls accompanied by two spoons; the spoons are engraved with "Saul" and "Paul," the two names of one of the most famous early Christians who was a convert himself. These artifacts seem to symbolize King Raedwald's own conversion to Christianity. 

[LISTENING]
The reasons for thinking that the person buried in this grave was King Raedwald are actually not as convincing as the reading suggests.
First, the dating argument. It's actually not easy to pinpoint the exact dates of the objects and events the passage refers to. Take the date of King Raedwald's death. It's true that one historical record suggests it was 624. But there is another source that places his death 25 years earlier, and the dating of the coins is somewhat uncertain as well. Recent analysis puts the dates of the coin several years after the date of King Raedwald's death proposed in the reading, so we cannot really match the objects in the grave with the date of King Raedwald's death very accurately.
Second, we cannot really say whether the grave was truly exceptional. That's because there are almost no well-preserved graves from that period we can compare it to. Only a small number of graves from that period have ever been found. And it's clear that many precious objects were removed from those graves by robbers over the years. So, while this particular grave seems impressive, we don't really know whether it was more impressive and more splendid than all other graves at the time. So, we cannot be sure it was the grave of a king who was more powerful than the other kings.
Third, we cannot even be sure that the person buried in the grave was a Christian. Burying a person with a ship and precious possessions was not a Christian burial practice, but a practice associated with earlier non-Christian kings. And those spoons engraved with Christian names don't necessarily mean the king was a Christian himself; maybe he just received the spoons from a Christian individual as a gift, and they ended up in the grave because they were made of silver and were valuable.