[READING]
Then around 500 C.E., a group known as the Anglo-Saxons immigrated to England from what is now Denmark and Germany and took over political control of England. This history raises an interesting question: Are the modern inhabitants of England descended mostly from the original Celts or from the later Anglo-Saxons? Several pieces of evidence suggest that the modern English people are descended mostly from the Anglo-Saxons.
First, the scale of the Anglo-Saxon immigration was massive. According to some sources written soon after the migration, a majority of Anglo-Saxons had left their homelands and come to England. The parts of Denmark and Germany where the Anglo-Saxons had lived originally lost most of their population. The sources imply that the large numbers of Anglo-Saxons arriving in England overwhelmed the original Celtic population and caused the Celts to retreat to other parts of Great Britain. 
Second, the modern English language is derived from the language spoken by the Anglo-Saxon immigrants, not from the language of the original Celtic inhabitants of England. This fact strengthens the theory that the population of England today is mostly descended from Anglo-Saxons. 
Third, a genetic study has been recently conducted among inhabitants of several villages in the east of England. The study looked at the villagers' DNA to determine which groups they were descended from. The study found that the DNA of the villagers was nearly identical to the DNA of people living in the parts of Denmark and Germany, where the Anglo-Saxons originally came from. Their genetic similarity again confirms the theory that modern-day English people are mainly descended from Anglo-Saxons. 

[LISTENING]
Actually, it's much more likely that today's English people are mostly descended from the original Celtic population. The modern English people are probably not mostly the descendants of the Anglo-Saxon immigrants, as the passage claims.
First, the old sources that described the large numbers of Anglo-Saxons immigrating to England ignored the size of the Celtic population. Modern historians estimate that the Celtic population that already lived in England at the time was, in fact, much larger than the population of the arriving Anglo-Saxons. Since the Celts outnumber the Anglo-Saxons, it's unlikely that they were pushed out by them. The majority of the population probably remained Celtic.
Second, just because all the people of England came to speak the Anglo-Saxon language does not mean that all of the people were of Anglo-Saxon origin. It often happens that the original population adopts the language of a new politically dominant group as their own. For example, at the time of the Roman Empire that once dominated southern Europe politically, many southern European nations abandoned their original languages and adopted the language of the Romans. A similar thing probably happened in England as well. The Celts, who represented most of the population, adopted the Anglo-Saxon language as their own.
Third, the genetic study mentioned in the passage does not give a complete picture. The samples were taken from one small area in the east of England. Since this area is geographically closest to the Anglo-Saxon homelands, it's natural that the influence of Anglo-Saxon immigration was pretty high there. But just because the DNA of people in that particular area showed a relationship to the Anglo-Saxons does not mean that this would hold true for England as a whole. And indeed, subsequent genetic research in other areas of England has shown a much greater genetic component from the Celtic ancestors.