[READING]
Plastic debris in the oceans is huge environmental concern. Recently, it has been proposed that a device called an Ocean Cleanup Array (OCA) could collect and remove plastic from the oceans. This device consists of floating barriers 3 meters deep and 100 kilometers long. The barriers are anchored to the ocean floor, and natural ocean currents carry the plastic toward the barriers, where the plastic is pooled and collected. The designers of this system claim that it will allow for efficient cleanup, with little negative effect on the environment, for several reasons. 
Cost: First, the brilliance of this device is that it does not expend much energy because it makes use of natural ocean currents to bring the plastic to it. Its functioning is, therefore, quite inexpensive compared with other ocean cleanup methods. For a cost of about 400 million dollars, one device can remove up to 7 million kilograms of plastic every year. This is about 30 times less expensive per unit of plastic removed than any other ocean cleanup method.
Minimal Impact on Marine Life: Second, other cleanup methods often rely on nets, which can entangle and injure marine animals. The floating barriers of the OCA are solid and fixed in one location, meaning that swimming animals can easily avoid them and will not get caught or trapped by the structure. Thus, there be minimal impact on marine life.
Recycling: Finally, the large quantities of plastic that will be collected by the device can be recycled. The two most common types of plastic in the ocean are polyethylene and polypropylene. Each of these types of plastic can be processed by recycling plants. Plastic collected from the ocean can, therefore, be sold to recycling facilities. 

[LISTENING]
The Ocean Cleanup Array is an interesting idea, but it does have some problems.
First, let's talk about the cost of these devices. You know, people underestimate how hostile the ocean environment is. Ocean water has corrosive chemical properties, and ocean waves exert strong mechanical forces. Devices placed in the ocean get easily damaged and need to be repaired very frequently. The repair expenses can be large. Also, the total amount of plastic that enters the ocean every year is really huge. It's so huge that we would need 500 of these devices to keep the oceans clean, so the cost of 400 million dollars per device is just a start. You need to add to that number all the repair expenses that I mentioned and then multiply that figure by 500 because that's how many devices we would need. It should be clear that, overall, this is not a cheap solution.
Second, the marine life. Yes, swimming animals can avoid the device, but consider plankton. Plankton consists of tiny microscopic creatures. They aren't strong enough swimmers, so they are carried by ocean currents. So, the ocean currents that draw the plastic to the barriers will draw in large amounts of plankton as well. When the plastic is removed from the devices, the plankton will be removed with it. Removing large amounts of plankton from the oceans would negatively affect the entire ocean food chain because plankton is an important food source for many sea animals.
Third, recycling. The problem is that plastic collected from the ocean is not quite ready for recycling. For example, polyethylene and polypropylene objects break down into small pieces in the ocean. When the pieces are collected, they're all mixed up. So recycling facilities first have to separate them. That costs money. In addition, sea organisms get attached to those pieces of plastic and have to be cleaned off. That also costs money. If recycling facilities have to invest too much effort and money into making this plastic ready for actual recycling, they will not be interested in buying ocean plastics.