[READING]
The Erie Canal, built in the early nineteenth century, is an artificial waterway over300 miles long. It connects the Hudson River north of New York City to the interior of the United States. The canal opened up water transport from much of the Midwest all the way to the East Coast of the United States. However, before its construction, many critics doubted that the project would be successful There seemed to be too many challenges. 
The first challenge was the local terrain and landscape. The canal had to be dug out and built through areas that would make construction difficult. There were many forests, and clearing a channel through a forest required a slow process of using saws to cut down trees and then axes to chop out the tree stumps and roots that remained. In addition, another challenge was that the canal would also pass through wetlands, in which workers might fall ill from malaria, a disease caused by mosquitoes. 
The second challenge was a lack of workers. The entire United States at that time had a relatively small population. The massive construction of a canal would require many thousands of workers, which opponents of the canal said the country would not be able to supply. 
Finally, critics argued that the Erie Canal would not yield enough benefits to justify its high cost. The main purpose of the canal was to facilitate commerce between the coast and the interior of the United States. However, at the time there were simply not very many people who lived or wanted to settle in the Midwest, so there wasn't that much in the way of goods produced there to be sent back to the coast. 

[LISTENING]
As you know, the Erie Canal was built and was successful. Here's how the challenges described in the reading were overcome.
First, dealing with clearing the trees and the concerns about malaria. Let's start with the trees. To deal with them, some very useful devices were invented. For example, to pull tree stumps with roots out of the ground, the tree stump was attached with chains to a device called a stump puller. A team of strong animals like oxen then pulled this device, which then pulled the stump out of the ground, greatly reducing the amount of manual labor involved. As for the dangers posed by the wetlands, workers simply waited until winter to dig through these regions. Why winter? Well, that was because mosquitoes that cause malaria are not active at that time.
Second, getting enough workers. Well, thousands of immigrants from Europe arrived in the United States just around the time construction was about to start. These new immigrants wanted jobs and were willing to take on the difficult work of digging the canal. So, by a lucky coincidence, there was a sufficient number of workers for the construction.
Lastly, the critics, as you read, argued that there were not enough people in the interior of the United States to generate enough trade. However, there was a reason why not many people lived in the interior. It was difficult to get there and costly to ship goods back. That all changed with the completion of the Erie Canal. The travel time for new settlers to get to the Midwest decreased from six weeks to six days. And as to the cost of shipping products from the interior back to the East Coast, what had cost $100 to ship over land was reduced to only $10 by way of the waterways.