[READING]
A new study has revealed that in America, less than a quarter of newly qualified doctors go into primary care. This finding suggests that the number of new primary care doctors falls short of what is needed and fails to satisfy the growing demand. This declining rate of primary care physicians can be linked to several shortcomings of America’s medical school system. There are three main hurdles that medical students face that hinder the appeal and practicality of entering the field of primary care.
To begin with, medical school is getting more and more expensive. The current price of medical school means that most medical students can expect to have significant school loans and debt by the time they graduate. In order to pay off this debt, medical students are turning toward more lucrative specialties instead of pursuing primary care. The rise in tuition costs has also priced out many talented but low-income students who might have chosen primary care as a profession. In this case, the tremendous cost of tuition scares off potential doctors.
A key component of medical school is a period of hospital residency. This internship is a period of training that must be completed after a student graduates from medical school and typically lasts three years. The hospital residency application process is particularly grueling and competitive. The best residency programs attract the most exceptional and talented applicants who all compete for a limited number of openings. Because primary care residency openings are so limited and competitive, many medical students prefer to pursue less competitive specialties.
All of the above-mentioned hurdles add to the already significant levels of stress that medical students face. Medical doctors and students are under a huge amount of pressure from multiple sources. Emotional exhaustion, the feeling of lack of personal accomplishment, and dissatisfaction of work-life balance all contribute to physicians' level of stress. In light of this, it is no wonder that many possible primary care doctors are choosing not to follow this career path.

[LISTENING]
The increasing shortage of primary care physicians in America poses several challenges to the medical system. However, the challenges mentioned in the reading passage overlook many of the recent advancements made in universities, hospitals, and government policies.
For instance, the claim that high tuition costs force students to choose more lucrative specialties, or that low-income students are marginalized, overlooks the recent changes at many universities. While it is true that tuition costs have ballooned over the decades, universities have responded by offering financial aid in the form of scholarships to help offset tuition costs. This certainly helps reduce financial burdens for medical students and will make students less concerned with studying financially profitable fields.
And as for the lack of internships and residency spots? It is true that some hospitals’ openings are very competitive; however, many of these competitive residency slots are centralized around urban hospitals. Many medical students would be surprised to learn that there are thousands of vacancies at hospitals located in more rural areas. If students would be willing to move to more remote and less urban part of the country for three years, many of them could no doubt easily find a compatible and accessible residency program.
Finally, it is true that doctors are under a lot of pressure from many different sources, but the government has recently passed new legislation and introduced new policies that will help ease their work-related stress. These policy changes include extended vacation time and reduced shift hours, resulting in a more flexible work schedule. With more time off, primary care doctors will experience a reduction in physical or mental fatigue.