[READING]
Finding and keeping talented teachers has been a systemic problem for many school districts. Rising populations and urban development have put pressure on school districts to attract and keep qualified teachers to ensure the ongoing availability of quality education. Signing bonuses for new teachers in shortage areas, particularly in large urban areas where demand is extremely high, will have several benefits to local education systems.
As with every industry, employers who can provide higher salaries have been extremely successful at attracting qualified and talented employees. Raising teacher income has been a proven method of talent retention and has been used in numerous school districts with wide success. Teachers attracted by the cash incentive of a signing bonus have also demonstrated increased job satisfaction as well as increased job performance. In light of this evidence, signing bonuses in the education industry should be continued.
Another benefit of providing teachers with a signing bonus is that it helps attract industry experts and professionals from other fields. Especially in the case of university professors, many professors are not teachers by trade. Rather, they make the transition from industry professional to teacher as a way to supplement their usual income. Attracting talented professors from outside the education industry is a great method to ensure that universities are staffed with high-quality instructors. This in turn greatly benefits student learning and befits university enrollment and university qualifications at the same time.
One major problem that exists in schools at every level is the student-teacher ratio. This ratio can be determined by dividing number of students by the number of teachers. In the west, and increasingly in other parts of the world, smaller classes are believed to benefit pupils by providing more individualized attention to each student. In areas where there is a shortage of teachers, student performance has decreased and teacher turnover has increased. By providing new teachers with signing bonuses, schools are able to adequately staff their classrooms and deter teacher resignation caused by staffing problems and overwork.

[LISTENING]
Teacher recruitment and retention has been a problem for quite some time. However, the benefits of providing teachers with signing bonuses are still rather controversial. In fact, the advantages stated in the reading passage have several shortcomings and fail to address crucial problems in the education industry.
Firstly, many teachers are not solely motivated by a high salary. According to several surveys, when considering a new teaching position, the majority of teachers will closely look at the overall quality of the school. This includes library collections, laboratory equipment, and modern computer labs. In this case, schools lacking in these areas often fail to attract the most talented and qualified teachers.
Secondly, teachers must be trained and certified before they are ready to begin work in the classroom. Industry professionals and experts looking to make the transition into a classroom teacher must first undergo extensive training and certification before they are ready to handle a classroom of students. Training and certification regimens are rigorous and time-intensive and often conflict with people’s daytime jobs. Prospective teachers may find the certification process stressful and too time-consuming.
Lastly, teachers who are only in the classroom to earn a paycheck do not usually have a positive attitude. More than likely, these instructors lack the sensitivity and kindness instrumental in providing and fostering a learning environment. Students pick up on teacher attitude inadequacies and respond in kind by withdrawing intellectually and with decreases in attention and performance. Merely providing extra money to teachers who are not entirely focused on teaching has the effect of negatively impacting student performance. In the case of teacher recruitment, it is really difficult to find merit in providing new hires with signing bonuses and extra financial incentives.