[READING]
Historians, military strategists, political scientists and economists are all greatly interested in the mechanisms that led to the rise of the roman empire. The Roman empire, known for sustained military and political domination of many areas of Europe, north Africa, and the near east, has captured the interests of many analysts who have developed three possible reasons for the rise of and domination of the Roman empire.
Firstly, the Roman army was superior to all neighboring armies. Despite having a very small domestic population, Rome was able to successfully develop the world's first professional army. The army was well-trained, well-disciplined, and well-equipped. When necessary, the army was supplemented with mercenaries to fill the ranks. Additionally, Rome had a mighty navy which could swiftly and efficiently deploy troops, increasing the area which Rome could effectively control. This superior military helped Rome defeat competing armies and help maintain the empire's stability with aggressive force.
A second factor that contributed to the rise of the Roman empire was the unchallenged power of the emperor. Roman emperors possessed enormous power over the courts and government as well as the military and regular citizens. In effect, the emperor was just short of an infallible deity. By holding these powers, the emperor could prosecute anyone who interfered with the performance of his duties. Because of this, detractors and dissidents were unlikely to object to the actions of the emperor. This afforded the empire with solidarity and helped it rise to regional dominance.
Another feature of the Roman empire was high taxes. Wealth coming from taxes helped the Roman government continue military campaigns and feed army camps. Additionally, public works projects like roads and other infrastructure were completed with money taxed from individuals. This income in turn helped stimulate the economy, promoting a prosperous and rich environment for trade.

[LISTENING]
The rise of the Roman Empire is a truly remarkable historical event which has garnered the attention of various analysts, each of whom has differing views of just how the Empire came about. However, the theories put forward in the reading passage do not stand up to much scrutiny.
To begin with, the fact that the Roman army was mostly comprised of mercenaries directly contributed to the collapse of the Roman army and Empire. Because these mercenaries valued money over loyalty, they held very limited allegiance to the Emperor. In fact, they were more likely to be loyal to specific commanders and generals.
For example, if a military general or commander had a change of heart and switched loyalty away from the Empire, his militia would typically switch loyalty as well. This is one weakness of the Roman army. Another way in which the reading passage fails to appropriately explain the rise of Rome is the authoritarian power that the emperors wielded. Many of Rome’s latter emperors made terrible decisions which weakened the rule of Rome. For example, one Emperor built many palaces in a selfish desire to appease the gods. Because government officials were lax to go against the Emperor’s edicts and actions, poor decisions were never questioned. This had the effect of weakening Roman strength and stability through abuse of power and misuse of state funds.
Lastly, the tax system of Rome unfairly placed the majority of the burden on the lower-class farmers and peasants. They were taxed heavily and thus struggled to survive and provide for their families. As a result of these high taxes during Rome’s rise to power, these farmers developed hatred towards the Roman Empire and the unceasing taxes. This unrest led to an eventual revolt, which toppled the Empire.