[READING]
A product life cycle is a series of stages through which a product passes between. older, long-establish products eventually become less popular, while in contrast, the demand for new, more modern goods usually increases. most companies understand product life cycle stages and that the products they sell have a limited lifespan. when products reach what is called the maturity stage, it is time to introduce new methods of product or brand marketing to ensure the continuation of product sales. there are three main methods used to promote sales of aging products.
The first method is to launch a new version of the product thereby appealing to new customers. this is commonly used on well-established brand and products. companies will make small alterations and improvements to appeal to new customers. let’s look at coca-cola for example. when the coca-cola beverage reached maturity and market saturation, marketing managers and sales managers devised new products. these products included sugar-free sodas and diet sodas that appealed to a more health-conscious consumer. by tweaking an existing product to make new changes, coca-cola products were able to find new consumers.
A second method used is to release a related product. this method is often used in conjunction with existing products to help boost sales. companies will create new, related products to appeal to the existing customer base in hopes of increasing sales. for example, a tractor company that manufactures farm and construction equipment will also sell boots. these boots are a related product which carries the same brand name and will appeal to those who purchase a tractor. the boots represent a new avenue of sales and will continue to contribute sales revenue to the company.
A final method is forming a partnership. business partnerships are a valuable resource that is mutually beneficial for all parties involved. this type of partnership is often used to reduce costs or to develop a product that one company would not be able to produce by itself. let’s take a look at an ice cream company and a chocolate company. these two companies formed a partnership to produce chocolate ice cream. for both companies, this new chocolate ice cream product represents a new product and source of sales.

[LISTENING]
Decreasing sales and popularity of a product is a phenomenon that nearly every single product experiences over its product life cycle. The sales and marketing techniques listed in the reading passage all fall short of addressing the problem of decreasing sales and are far from ideal.
To begin with, launching a new product often has unexpected negative effects. New product versions might offend existing customers and make them feel old-fashioned or that they purchase out-of-date products. In this scenario, the new product will fail to appeal to existing customers and will, in fact, end up reducing overall sales.
Second, producing related products under the same branding has several pitfalls as well. When new, related products are released, consumers expect these products to possess all the qualities that the brand possesses. Let’s look at the example in the reading passage about tractors and boots. People buy tractors because they represent certain qualities like toughness and durability. This, however, doesn’t mean that the boots will possess the same qualities. If the boots fail to live up to the consumer’s expectations, then the company’s reputation will decline, and sales will suffer.
Forming business partnerships is a very attractive option for many companies. However, partnerships and business relations often fall apart for one reason or another. When this happens, one company will probably suffer more than the other. Looking at the example in the reading regarding an ice cream and chocolate company, let us imagine that the chocolate company no longer wishes to do business with the ice cream company. Although this combination of products has attracted many consumers at the beginning, the chocolate company will later consider launching its own ice cream and become a competitor of its partner. In this way, the ice cream company has helped the chocolate company, now a direct competitor, establish a consumer market.