[READING]
Recent research has shed light on the health of aquatic ecosystems, and the results are not good. To combat the declining health of marine ecosystems, many scientists and politicians are advocating marine conservation techniques to ensure the preservation and restoration of ecosystems in oceans, seas, rivers, and bays. Marine conservation focuses on limiting human-caused damage to marine ecosystems as well as focusing on preserving vulnerable marine species. In the case of Chesapeake Bay, several techniques have been recommended to support sustainable populations of diverse and valuable animal species.
The first recommended technique is to discontinue the harvesting of crabs. Unsustainable fishing practices have reduced crab populations to dangerous levels, so much so that the Chesapeake Bay crabs are now endangered. Halting crab fishing and harvesting will ensure that the crab population can return to healthy size. Stopping exploitive fishing is the surest way to restore health to an aquatic ecosystem.
A second aquatic ecosystem restoration technique is to introduce oysters into the bay environment. Oysters are able to filter and mitigate pollutants and act as natural aquatic filters. Like fish, oysters pass water over their gills exchanging gas. However, oysters also filter out particles in the water. In essence, the oyster is absorbing all the pollution in its surrounding area and pumps out fresh, clean water.
Another man-made threat to aquatic ecosystems comes from water pollution from farms that use fertilizers. Fertilizer is not a problem if used carefully. However, if too much fertilizer is used or applied at the wrong time, it can easily wash off and flow into lakes and streams. Fertilizers contain nutrients such as nitrates and phosphates that can overstimulate the growth of aquatic plants and algae, creating an imbalance in the delicate ecosystem. Educating farmers of the consequences of fertilizer usage as well as instructing them on proper usage and application should be the forefront in conservation techniques.

[LISTENING]
Aquatic ecosystems are indeed facing tremendous pressures from multiple sources that threaten their sustainability and health. However, the solutions enumerated in the reading passage all pose specific problems themselves and are far from ideal.
Firstly, altogether restricting fishermen from harvesting Bay crabs would have a seriously detrimental effect on local industry and economics. In addition to ruining the livelihood of the local fishermen, those who rely on the crab harvesting industry would also be adversely affected. It is hard to imagine that farmers would both approve of this regulation and follow it.
Secondly, introducing oysters to act as natural water filters has several drawbacks. Introducing nonnative species to an environment oftentimes also introduces new diseases and pathogens, which may create adverse conditions for native species. Oysters are known to carry several types of diseases, which, if transmitted to indigenous fauna, could have unintended consequences, further damaging the ecosystem. Therefore, introducing oysters into the Bay environment is not such a good idea.
Finally, the area of farmland surrounding Chesapeake Bay is huge. Educating farmers and controlling the amount of fertilizer used is a very unrealistic expectation. Education of proper fertilizer use might work on a small scale. However, the area is just large to expect farmers to accept and follow environmentally friendly fertilizer practices. In order to restore health back to this aquatic ecosystem, other methods must be developed and implemented.