[READING]
The dodo bird is an extinct flightless bird species that lived on the island of Mauritius, in the Indian Ocean. Written records as well as fossil remains indicate that human behavior is directly responsible for the dodo bird's eventual extinction. There are three main ways in which humans contributed and accelerated this extinction.
First, the dodo bird was exhaustively hunted by sailors looking for an easy snack. The dodo was the perfect target. Because the dodo bird's natural environment lacked any significant natural predators, dodos were innately trusting and were fearless of people, making them easy prey. This feature, combined with flightlessness and inability to escape the hungry sailors, further contributed to their eventual demise and extinction.
Another way in which human action directly contributed to the extinction of the dodo bird is deforestation. Early sailors and settlers of Mauritius cleared large areas of forest for the construction of settlements. Deforestation destroyed the natural habitats of the dodo bird and eliminated resources the dodo depended upon for sustenance. The destruction of the forest habitats forced dodos into smaller and smaller areas, meaning that they were also forced to compete with each other for resources to survive.
A third impact humans had on the dodo is disease. Sailors, in addition to bringing along their appetites, carried pathogens to which the dodo had no immunity. When these diseases were introduced into the previously isolated dodo environment, the result was a rapid decimation of the dodo bird. The dodo had no time to develop resistances and thus disappeared almost overnight.

[LISTENING]
Of all the reasons mentioned in the reading passage, none of them entirely describe the dodo bird extinction accurately.
To begin with, there are many surviving letters, journals, and other documents that describe how the sailors found dodo meat to be unpalatable and tough. It is hard to believe that hungry sailors would deliberately hunt and consume an animal that was widely considered to be unpleasant.
Second, although humans did clear large areas of trees on Mauritius Island, the dodos were mostly unaffected by this activity. Dodos, being flightless birds with no known predators, made their nests on the ground. The clearing of the forests had a minimal impact on dodo reproduction and habitat resources.
The third example mentioned in the reading, where humans introduced new pathogens into the Mauritius ecosystem, causing rapid dodo extinction, is tenuous at best. It is the opinion of many historians that adverse weather patterns and events strongly contributed to the demise of the dodo. For example, we now know that massive cyclones and typhoons struck the island over and over. This repeated unfavorable weather had a devastating impact on the dodo and was a large contributor to its extinction. As we can see, placing the blame on human action as the sole cause for dodo extinction is simply not true.