[READING]
Cities are hotter than natural areas for several reasons. First, buildings absorb more heat from the sun than plants and soil do. In addition, paved surfaces retain heat, preventing cities from cooling down. Finally, motor vehicles produce heat and exhaust that builds up within cities, further raising the temperature relative to natural areas. Hot temperatures can be uncomfortable and dangerous for city residents. Researchers have proposed several methods for reducing heat in cities. 
One popular idea is to install plants on the roofs of buildings. In parks, plants naturally cool the air around them as a result of certain life processes. They also provide shade. The expectation is that when grown on the tops of buildings, plants will cause the roofs to be significantly cooler for the same reasons. Just like parks, where plants provide shade and cool the surroundings, "green roofs"will help lower urban temperatures. 
Another approach is to replace the materials ordinarily used to palve roads and sidewalks with materials that absorb water from rainfall. Ordinary paving materials do not soak up rainwater, so water flows away into gutters instead. Water-absorbing pavements, on the other hand, have many tiny holes that hold on to rainwater. When hot air causes this retained water to evaporate, the paved surfaces and the surrounding air grow cooler. So cities with water-absorbing pavements will be significantly cooler. 
Finally, some experts believe that cities can be made cooler by creating new, denser urban areas that discourage people from using cars. If new urban areas are built with larger, taller buildings that can house more people and businesses, distances that people have to cover to visit another person or a business will be shorter. As a result, it will be more practical to travel by foot or by bicycle than by Car. With fewer motor vehicles in use in dense urban areas, there will be less heat and exhaust, leading to lower temperatures overall. 

[LISTENING]
Unfortunately, there are problems with the solutions mentioned in the reading.
First, many people believe that plants naturally make their surroundings cooler. However, very few plant species are actually suitable for this purpose. And the plant species that can survive on roofs do not work this way. You see, only certain plants can survive on roofs. That's because roofs expose plants to harsh wind. Furthermore, soil is very heavy, so you cannot put a lot of it on roofs. Instead, you have to use thin soil, but only a few plant species grow well in harsh wind and thin soil. And these species do not cool down the air like ordinary plants do.
Second, about water absorbing pavements. These can cool the air above them, provided they contain rainwater that's evaporating. But some dry climates get very little rainfall, which means there are long periods of hot weather without rain. Under these conditions, water-absorbing pavements actually absorb and retain more heat than regular pavements. You see the little holes in these pavements increase their surface area. Sunlight shines into the holes, heating up more pavement material exposed by these holes. Greater surface areas can make the heat problem worse.
Finally, it's true that denser cities reduce the need for cars and can thus lower the amount of heat they contribute. But denser cities will increase the effect of another source of heat, human bodies. When people and buildings are spread out over a wide area, the body heat of the population doesn't have such a huge effect. But when people are crowded into a smaller area, the heat they produce gets concentrated and has a significant effect. In a dense city, that effect would be about the same as that of car heat in more spread-out cities.