[READING]
Ireland is home to many stone structures called “Irish round towers,” which were probably built around 1000 years ago. These buildings are round, narrow, and from eighteen to forty meters tall. While there is no clear agreement on their purpose, several theories have been suggested. 
Forts: One possibility is that the towers were built as forts to protect against foreign invaders such as the Vikings of Scandinavia. Local people could hide themselves and their valuables inside the towers and wait for an attack to end. This theory is supported by the fact that the doors are located in an unusual place. Instead of being placed at ground level, the doors are located several meters above the ground. Local people would have been able to enter a tower only by climbing a ladder that could then be pulled up into the tower. This unusual design would have allowed them to keep invaders out in the event of an attack. 
Bell Towers: Another possibility is that the towers once housed metal bells that could be rung loudly to send messages to the local population. At that time, many European towns had bell towers, which were used for communication, so it is possible that the round towers served the same purpose. In fact, in the Irish language, the traditional name for the towers sounds exactly like an Irish word that literally means “bell house.” This strongly suggests that the round towers indeed functioned as bell towers. 
Watchtowers: A third possibility is that the towers functioned as watchtowers. Historians have pointed out that watchtowers were usually high structures built to allow for observations of the surrounding areas. Since all Irish round towers are tall buildings, it is possible that they were built to provide a high place from which guards or watchmen could see enemies, local inhabitants, or visitors approaching from afar. 

[LISTENING]
Unfortunately, the purpose of the Irish round towers is still unknown.
First, recent discoveries suggest that the towers probably were not forts. Turns out that the high placement of the doors was structurally necessary. You see, all tall buildings need a strong foundation to support the heavyweight above them. Modern tall buildings usually have deep, thick underground walls as foundations, but Irish round towers lack underground foundations. Instead, their builders made the towers stable by filling the lower part of the building with soil and stones. Several meters of soil and stones were usually piled inside the bottom of the towers. And this meant the doors had to be placed several meters above ground level, but this had nothing to do with defense.
Second, it's true that the Irish word for bell house sounds like the traditional name for round towers, but the name for the towers also sounds very similar to the Irish word for Stonehouse. The round towers were the only significant stone buildings in Ireland at the time. So, it actually makes sense that they would have been called stone houses. Because both words sound nearly the same, it's difficult to know which word was the original name for the towers. Additionally, there is no archaeological evidence that the towers originally had bells in them.
Finally, watch towers were usually constructed so that guards could see far in all directions. But the Irish round towers were not generally built this way. For instance, one tower stands at the bottom of a narrow valley, where it's mostly surrounded by hills much taller than the tower itself. This location makes it difficult to see from any distance because the nearby hills block the view. Another indication that the round towers were not watch towers is that each tower has only a few small windows that provide views in certain directions, but not others.