[READING]
The red palm weevil is a small, plant-eating beetle that infests and feeds on palm trees, ultimately leading to the trees' dying. Originally from tropical Asia, the red palm weevil has spread to many different locations in the world, prompting experts to come up with strategies to contain the spread of the troublesome pest. 
Destroy infested trees: One strategy to get rid of the weevil is to cut down and destroy palm trees as soon as they show visible signs of infestation. Trees at risk of being infested by weevils should be routinely monitored for symptoms of infestation, such as yellowed leaves or small holes in their trunks, so they can be promptly destroyed if any symptoms are observed. The economic and ecological consequences of weevil infestation have been substantial; detecting and destroying trees showing signs of infestation as early as possible provides the best chance to limit the spread of the pest. 
Use traps: Another strategy would be to capture the weevils in insect traps, using pheromone mixture to attract them to the traps. Pheromones, which are chemicals produced naturally by the weevils, play an important role in their reproduction and social behavior. Scientists can produce pheromones artificially. Traps containing a mixture of artificial weevil pheromones and poisonous chemicals could be placed near infested palms; the pheromones in the traps would attract the weevils, and the poison would eliminate them.
Apply pesticides: Finally, red palm weevils can be eliminated through an application of pesticides that kill weevils directly. Pesticides can be sprayed on trees, injected into tree trunks, or even infused into the soil, where they will be absorbed by the tree and kill off any weevil population living there. 

[LISTENING]
Containing the spread of the red palm weevil will continue to be a challenge since all of the strategies you've just read about have weaknesses.
First, we cannot always determine that a palm tree has been infested, especially in the early stages. You see, by the time the palm tree first starts showing visible symptoms, like yellow leaves, it typically has been infested by weevils for months. So, this method would miss a lot of trees in the initial stages of weevil infestation because they would not be showing any signs of infestation yet. By the time the signs become visible, the weevils that infested the tree have already had a chance to reproduce, and some have already moved on to infest other trees.
Second, insect traps. Well, the traps need to be maintained properly. As you read, the traps contained pheromones and poisonous chemicals, but the poison doesn't stay active for very long. So, it's important to replenish it in each trap once a week. If the traps are not properly maintained, for example, if the poison in the traps is not regularly replaced, the pheromone in the traps will continue attracting the weevils, but the weevils will not be killed in the traps, and so they'll spread to the surrounding area. So poorly maintained traps could actually make the problem worse.
Third, a problem with the pesticide strategy is that infested trees have hundreds of weevils living deep inside them. Pesticides need to be applied very thoroughly to reach deep inside a tree to kill the weevils living in hard-to-reach places there. But even when the pesticides have been applied thoroughly, a few adult weevils typically survive since any surviving female can lay more than 200 eggs at a time. The few surviving adult weevils can produce enough offspring to keep doing serious damage to many trees.