[READING]
In the sediment of the Rhone River near Arles, France, archaeologists discovered a life-size marble bust (artistic sculpture of the head and neck) that some claim is the oldest known representation of Julius Caesar, the famous leader of the Roman state, created around 46 B.C.E, when Caesar was in his fifties. Those making the claim base it on three arguments. 
Style of sculpture: First, the bust was made using the realist sculpture's style that was introduced to Rome during Caesar's time. Older Roman sculpture styles often depicted people in an ideal way, ignoring any flaws in their appearance and making them look younger. In contrast, the principle of realism prevalent in Caesar's time was to represent people's physical features faithfully, even if they were not attractive. The Rhone River bust is a completely realistic portrayal of a man in his fifties. 
Resemblance to other portraits of Julius Caesar: Second, the bust shares some intriguing details with other portraits of Caesar that are known to have been made during Caesar's lifetime. For example, Caesar was depicted on money (silver coins) used during his rule. The coins show Caesar's hair to be much the same as it is represented in the Rhone River bust. 
Location of bust: Third, the fact that the bust was found in the Rhone River sediment supports the claim that it depicts Julius Caesar. Caesar was violently overthrown in 44 B.C.E. and replaced by another leader. In this circumstance, it could be politically dangerous for Roman citizens to keep bust of Caesar. It might be interpreted as a lack of respect for the new leader. So, it is likely that the bust of Caesar would have been disposed of very soon after 44 B.C.E. Throwing a marble bust into the deep Rhone River would have been a good way to get rid of it fast. 

[LISTENING]
Many experts on Roman art and culture do not support the conclusion that the Rhone River bust represents Julius Caesar. That's because the observations presented in the reading are very limited. If we look at them more closely, we'll see that they are not useful in determining who is portrayed in this work of art and how old it is.
First, it's true the style of realism discussed in the reading was particularly popular during Caesar's lifetime. However, the realist tradition in Roman art continued after Caesar died and was popular for a number of centuries after his death. So, the bust very well could have been made during a much later period than the first century B.C.E.
Second, the resemblance of the bust to depictions of Caesar on silver coins. While some aspects of the bust, especially the hairstyle, do match what we see on the coins, other features do not. The coins show Cesar is having a very slim nose and long neck, but the Rhone bust depicts Caesar's nose and neck differently. If the bust really represented Caesar, we would expect all the features visible in the bust to be consistent with the other depictions of Caesar made during his lifetime.
Third, the location of the bust in the Rhone River doesn't tell us much, either. See, other statues were also found in the river. For example, the statue of Neptune, the Roman god of the ocean, was found in the river right next to the bust. There was no need for anyone to get rid of a statue of Neptune for political reasons. The statue of Neptune had simply been thrown away. So it's likely the bust was simply thrown away as well. Rivers were actually typical places for Romans to dispose of their trash.