[READING]
Death Valley is a desert in the southwestern United States. In part of the desert called Racetrack Playa, there is an unusual phenomenon known as the sailing stones. The stones, which weigh up to 300 kilograms, appear to shift locations occasionally, sometimes moving hundreds of meters over the course of a few months. Geologists have produced three different theories to explain the phenomenon.
One such explanation is that the stones are pushed by the wind. Scientists have recorded strong winds in the Playa, and when it rains, the Playa's muddy floor becomes slick and slippery. Under such conditions, powerful gusts of wind could give the stones considerable push. The reduced friction of muddy ground would then allow the stones to slide long distances. Adding to the strength of this theory is the observation that the stones often travel parallel to the direction of the most common prevailing winds. 
A second possible theory for the stones' movement involves ice formations. During the night, groundwater will occasionally shape and form ice sheets on the ground. The ice sheets can trap stones within them. Ice sheets that form on sloping ground can start sliding slowly down the slope. Pulled by gravity, large and thick ice sheets would be able to drag along even heavy stones trapped within them. Over time, the gradual sliding movement could transport the stones great distances.
A third explanation is that people move the stones as part of an elaborate joke. In recent years, there have been reports of other unusual phenomena like crop circles, which were at first hard to explain but later turned out to be the work of people playing jokes. It is possible that the sailing stones have been moved around by people rather than by any natural forces. 

[LISTENING]
None of the explanations for the sailing stones given in the reading is convincing.
First, it's true that the Racetrack Playa experiences powerful winds. But when the stones move, they leave rather deep grooves in the ground that dig into the valley floor. The grooves look like very deep tire tracks in the mud. This means the moving stones meet a lot of resistance. They are being pushed through the mud rather than just sliding or rolling on the surface. You would need a lot of force to push 300 kilograms of stones through the playa's muddy floor. And it is unlikely that even powerful winds have enough force to do that.
Okay, what about the ice sheet theory? Well, for this theory to work, large and thick ice sheets would have to form. Now, there may be some ice occasionally forming in the Racetrack Playa. But, the conditions there are not really favorable for large-scale ice formation. First, it's a desert area, so there's only a small volume of groundwater available. And the small amount of groundwater is not the only limiting factor. The temperature may drop below freezing at night, but then it rises during the day. So, the temperature typically does not stay below freezing long enough to allow for the ice sheets to grow and thicken to the size needed to trap and carry the stones.
And third, although the sailing stones may seem like someone's idea of a perfect practical joke, there isn't any evidence that people move them. Researchers have never found human footprints or the footprints of a pack animal like a horse that could drag the stones. And since we can tell from the stones' tracks that they sometimes move during muddy periods, it would be impossible for any individual to move the stones without leaving some kind of tracks themselves.