[READING]
Compact fluorescent lamps (CFLs) are a relatively new type of lighting technology. In a CFL, electricity passing through mixture of gases causes phosphor coating to glow (phosphor is special light-emitting material). Since CFLs are more energy efficient than the standard light bulbs (also known as incandescent bulbs), some governments propose policies and even laws ensure that all users replace incandescent bulbs with CFLs. However, replacing incandescent bulbs with CFLs is ill-advised: CFLs are inferior to incandescent bulbs in several important respects. 
First of all, CFLs are much more expensive than incandescent bulbs. A CFL may cost up to ten times as much as an equivalent incandescent bulb. As incandescent bulbs are phased out, consumers and businesses will be required to purchase CFLs, which will be a financial burden. 
Second, CFLs pose a danger to the environment. CFLs contain mercury, a toxic metal. Mercury is responsible for number of environmental problems; it can accumulate in oceans and waterways, for example, and poison fish, birds, and other wildlife. Although special recycling methods exist that should allow the CFLs to be processed without releasing the mercury, many people are not used to recycling the bulbs. This means that most CFLs will not be recycled properly, will release their mercury upon being discarded, and will contribute to a serious environmental problem. 
Third, CFLs do not produce the same quality of light as incandescent bulbs. The light produced by incandescent bulbs contains a mix of different colors; the combination of different colors is what makes incandescent light pleasing to the eye. In contrast, most types of phosphor coatings used in CFLs produce light only in narrow color ranges. For that reason, many people do not consider the light from CFLs attractive. 

[LISTENING]
Actually, CFLs are a lot better than incandescent bulbs. And the policies promoting their use make a lot of sense. The arguments you just read were all based on misunderstandings or partial information.
First of all, it's true that CFLs cost more than incandescent bulbs. However, CFLs are very durable. The average life of the CFL is between 8 and 15 times that of the incandescent bulbs. So, because of the long lifetime of CFLs, their higher initial cost is more than compensated for. Over time, the savings are substantial. According to one estimate, a consumer investing $100 to switch from incandescent bulbs to CFLs can save $500 over the lifetime of the CFLs.
Second, it's true that CFLs can release small amounts of mercury. But incandescent bulbs actually cause more mercury to be released into the environment, at least indirectly. Incandescent bulbs are less efficient than CFLs, which means they use more electricity. Most electricity is created by burning fossil fuels such as coal, which releases many environmental pollutants, including mercury. Consumers using incandescent bulbs use more electricity, which means that more coal has to be burned, which means that more mercury is released. When you add it all up, the coal required to power an incandescent bulb releases more mercury than a CFL.
Third, it's true that old CFLs produce light that is not very pleasing to the eye. But this problem has been solved in newer CFLs. Each particular kind of phosphor coating can only produce a narrow range of colors. But different types of phosphor produce different colors. Unlike the old CFLs, the new CFLs use a mixture of different phosphor coatings. By using a mixture of phosphors, they produce almost all the colors of an incandescent bulb. The light from new CFLs is almost impossible to tell apart from incandescent light.