[READING]
The Panama Canal in Central America is currently used for much of the shipping of goods between Asia and the East Coast of the United States. Even so, since at least the mid-1800s, there has been interest in constructing canal through another location in Central America, Nicaragua, to the north of the Panama Canal, has long been proposed as a site for this canal. There are several reasons why some people support this proposal. 
First, a canal through Nicaragua would facilitate faster transport of goods between Asia and the East Coast of the United States. Ships coming from Asia have to travel farther south to reach the Panama Canal than they would to reach a canal in Nicaragua. Building a canal through Nicaragua would cut about 500 nautical miles off the journey between Asia and the East Coast of the United States. 
Second, canal through Nicaragua could allow for the transit of larger ships. As global trade over long distances grows in importance, shipping companies may try to increase efficiency by constructing larger freighter ships. The Panama Canal can handle ships carrying up to approximately 13,000 containers of goods. A canal through Nicaragua could be designed to accommodate ships that can carry several thousand more containers of goods at time.
Third, a canal through Nicaragua would be an opportunity to improve the environment. The builders of the canal have committed to compensate for environmental disruption caused by construction. For example, in order to offset the removal of trees in the path of the canal, the builders have agreed to plant a large number of trees in areas disrupted by the construction. In addition, they are also planning to replace trees in areas of Nicaragua where deforestation is already an extensive problem. These efforts to repair environmental damage will make significant improvements to the land.

[LISTENING]
Each of the reasons given in the passage for constructing a canal through Nicaragua has shortcomings.
First, about the faster transport of goods, it is true that the distance that ships would have to cover on the open seas between Asia and the east coast of the United States would be significantly reduced. But the problem is that the ships going through Nicaragua would have to spend more time passing through the canal itself. That's because the country of Nicaragua is much wider than Panama. In fact, a canal built across Nicaragua will be more than three times longer than the Panama Canal. Ships moving through a canal move very slowly, and so any time gained by ships and covering less distance on the open seas would be lost in passing through the Nicaragua Canal itself.
Second, it is not clear that a canal in Nicaragua could consistently allow larger ships to pass through. For this to happen, water levels in all parts of the canal need to be relatively high. Currently, proposals for the canal include building it through Lake Nicaragua, the largest lake in the region. But, during droughts, the water level of Lake Nicaragua becomes very low, and low water levels in Lake Nicaragua may mean that sometimes the water level will be too low for larger ships to pass through.
Third, reforestation will not likely be enough to compensate for all the environmental disruption caused by building the canal across Nicaragua. Nicaragua is an ecologically diverse country with several different types of ecosystems. And almost all of them will be altered by the construction of the canal. For example, the area affected by the canal construction contains different types of wetlands, each with its own distinct ecosystems of plants and animals. With this much diversity, it would be difficult to effectively measure the harm done to the environment and nearly impossible to attempt to repair the damage.