[READING]
The giant panda Is a species of bear native to south central China. It has become a rare species; there are fears that it may become extinct in the future. While scientists are undertaking many intense efforts to save panda populations, some of the pandas characteristics pose a serious challenge to its survival. 
First, pandas have digestive systems (organs that convert food into energy and nutrients) that are not well-adapted for their plant based diets. Pandas originally evolved from bears that fed on both meat and plants. While pandas' diet currently consists only of plants, their digestive system is still better suited for digesting meat. In the end, pandas manage to successfully digest only about 17 percent of all the plants they eat. Their poor digestive efficiency increases pandas' risk of becoming extinct. 
Second, pandas experience serious problems with breeding- mating and having offspring. In the wild, female pandas are receptive to breeding for only a few days a year, which seriously limits opportunities for pandas to reproduce naturally. Breeding pandas in captivity (in zoos, for example) is complicated by pandas' behavior. Captive pandas are often indifferent to mates even during the breeding season or are unsuccessful when attempting to breed. Because of these issues, zoos that keep pandas usually resort to artificial breeding techniques; unfortunately, such techniques are also not very effective. 
Finally, food shortage is a serious obstacle to the pandas survival. In general, pandas feed almost exclusively on a plant called bamboo. The problem is that bamboo populations naturally go through periodic cycles; after a period of growth, the plants flower and die. It can take years before the bamboo population grows back again. Because of the panda’s heavy reliance on bamboo for food, the period of bamboo shortage between die-off and regrowth poses a significant threat to wild pandas. 

[LISTENING]
The reading is too pessimistic about the future of the giant panda. The problems you read about are either not that serious, or they can be solved.
First, the panda's digestive efficiency is not a serious problem. While it's true that pandas can digest only 17% of what they eat, they evolved a specific feeding behavior that makes up for this. Their feeling strategy is called bulk feeding. Bulk feeding involves consuming large amounts of food in a short period of time. Through bulk feeding, pandas consume so much food that even if they digest only 17% of it, that's enough to give them the energy and nutrients their bodies need.
Second, breeding is a problem primarily for pandas kept in zoos. However, pandas that live in the wild actually breed successfully despite the short breeding season. In the wild, female pandas actively look for mates in their environment on the days they are receptive. Actively searching for mates increases the chances that females find suitable mates. As for the male pandas, they use their sense of smell to search for females since females release specific chemicals when they're ready to mate. So, male and female pandas have behaviors that help them find each other during the short breeding season. As long as pandas reproduce well in the wild, we don't have to be concerned about the difficulties of breeding pandas in zoos.
Finally, it's true that bamboo populations go through a periodic cycle, but natural bamboo forests contain several bamboo species. The different bamboo species go through their growth cycle at different times. You see, even when one bamboo species dies off, pandas can consume another species that is still growing. So, preserving the natural diversity of bamboo species in bamboo forests is key. As long as every forest that pandas live in contains several bamboo species, pandas will always have some growing bamboo plants to feed on.