[READING]
While scientists have been seriously observing behavior for well over a hundred years, the study of why animals play has only recently become a serious research topic. At least three different theories have been advanced to explain the phenomenon. 
The first theory is called the surplus energy theory. This theory maintains that some animals, mammals for example, are so efficient at using energy that they often do not manage to spend all the energy they receive through food. They end up with unused, surplus energy that they cannot store. According to this theory, animals have to play to get rid of the surplus energy that they have not used. 
A second theory is called the instinct-practice theory. It states that young animals play as part of their physical education. The physical actions that animals will need to use for survival are instinctual, that is, preprogrammed in their brains. The animals, however, have to train their bodies to be able to perform these actions. So, this theory explains why the play of young animals centers on real-life tasks. For example, predatory animals, those that hunt, kill, and consume other animals for food—have often been observed attacking and biting during play, which are precisely the skills they will need in order to hunt for food. 
A third theory, called the social functions theory, is that animals play to establish social relationships within their group. Basically, play gives animals a chance to bond with the other members in their group. For example, in a study of rats, those that played together made high-pitched squeaks that were accompanied by the release of pleasure may motivate the animals to stay together as a harmonious group even while not playing. 

[LISTENING]
Each of the three theories you just read about attempts to explain why animals play. But, each of the theories leads to predictions that turn out to be false. Because of these false predictions, none of the theories is fully successful.
Let's take the first theory, the surplus energy theory. This theory is contradicted by observations of marine mammals such as seals. Young seals sometimes have to survive alone for days, waiting for their mothers to bring food from far away. During that time, the young seals have no energy intake. As the days pass, they have very little stored-up energy remaining. Certainly, they have no surplus energy, and yet, they still play, even though they have no energy to spare.
Now, about the second theory, the instinct practice theory, the problem is that in some animals, playing and practicing don't seem to make much difference when it comes to hunting skills. In one experiment with cats, for example, researchers permitted 1 group of young cats to play, but they did not allow cats in another group to play. The researchers thought that the cats that were permitted to play would become better hunters, but that didn't happen. As the animals grew older, the cats that had played were not more skilled at hunting than the other cats.
And how about the third theory? The social functions theory? Well, although playing may help rats socialize with one another, play is probably not necessary for rats to develop social behavior. Rats only play when they're very young, but scientists observe that the region of a rat's brain that's important for social behavior can develop even when rats are older and don't play anymore. In other words, rats can develop the ability for social behavior, even after they've passed the age when they play.