[READING]
Regulating the speed of road vehicles by setting speed limits is a common practice: road speed limits are in effect in almost every country. However, some people believe that the typical speed limits are still too high, and suggest that lowering current speed limits would result in significant benefits.
First, people who support the lowering of speed limits argue that it would reduce the number of serious accidents. There is good evidence for this claim. In 1974, the United States lowered the speed limit on highways in the interstate system from 70 miles per hour (about 110 kilometers per hour) to 55 miles per hour (about 90 kilometers per hour). Studies showed that there was a clear and steady decrease in the number of serious accidents in the ten years after the speed limits were lowered.
Second, it is claimed that lowering speed limits would help address a serious environmental concern: poor air quality. Vehicle emissions are a serious source of air pollution. Experiments show that lowering speed limits can lower air-polluting emissions by vehicles. For this reason, a few states in the United States and several countries in the European Union have introduced lower speed limits with the expectation that this will cut automobile emissions and significantly improve air quality.
Third, it is claimed that reducing speed limits would provide an economic benefit, because it would save drivers money on fuel. Fuel prices are rising, and the faster people drive, the more fuel their vehicles use. Researchers have proven that drivers can decrease the amount of fuel they use by reducing their speed: for example, if a vehicle is driven at a speed of 80 or more kilometers an hour, decreasing the rate of speed by 8 kilometers per hour achieves a 5 to 10percent fuel savings. 

[LISTENING]
Certainly, it would be good to make the highway safer, improve air quality, and save money. Unfortunately, lowering speed limits is probably not an effective strategy for achieving these goals.
First, it's true that serious accidents decreased in the 10 years after speed limits were lowered in the United States. But it's not clear whether or how much of this decrease was due to the lower speed limits. Even before the limits were lowered, there was a downward trend in serious accidents on highways. Moreover, similar decreases were recorded on highways outside the interstate system where speed limits were not reduced. So, it looks like the reduction in serious accidents recorded after 1974 was just a continuation of a trend that was not related to speed limits. In fact, the trend was probably the result of better road design and car safety equipment.
Second, it's true that car emissions decrease with decreasing speed. But what's the rate of this decrease under actual driving conditions? In one city in the US, in the state of Texas, scientists found that reducing the speed limit on roads with high-speed limits reduced total automobile emissions by only about 0.1%. In a city where the air quality is very poor, such a reduction in pollution is not significant.
Third, it's true that reducing the rate of speed would reduce the amount of fuel vehicles use. But savings on fuel must be weighed against other economic factors. If vehicles were forced to travel slower, there would be negative economic effects as well. For example, if highway speeds were reduced, truck drivers would take longer to reach their destinations. This means that the drivers would need to be paid more for each trip. Higher payments to drivers would raise the costs of transporting goods and materials. And higher transportation costs would raise costs across the economy.