[READING]
Dengue is a serious viral disease that is typically spread by a mosquito called Aedes aegypti. The spread of dengue could be controlled by reducing Aedes aegypti populations. A biotechnology company has devised a way to achieve that: it has created a genetically modified (GM) Aedes aegypti mosquito. When the GM mosquitoes reproduce with wild mosquitoes, the mosquitoes in the next generation are defective and cannot survive. Releasing the GM mosquitoes to the wild would, therefore, reduce the population of Aedes aegypti and limit the spread of dengue. However, there are critics who believe that the plan to release the GM mosquitoes is potentially very dangerous and should not be put into practice. 
Other Mosquitoes May Increase: First, the Aedes aegypti mosquito is not the only mosquito that can spread dengue. Other, rarer mosquito species carry even more powerful denque virus. The critics suggest that if the Aedes aegypti population is reduced, populations of other mosquitoes could increase to take their place and then would spread more dangerous forms of the virus.
GM Mosquito Bite Could Be Dangerous: Second, the critics are concerned about what might happen when the GM mosquitoes bite people. The mosquitoes are genetically engineered to produce a defective protein that is why their offspring die. If the defective proteins are passed to people when the GM mosquitoes bite them, we do not know what the effects might be.
Unforeseen Ecological Effects: Third, there are concerns that introducing any genetically modified organism into an ecosystem might have unforeseen negative consequences. There are examples of this: the population of one type of butterfly was reduced by half after GM crops were introduced in areas where it lives. Introducing GM mosquitoes might have unforeseen ecological effects as well. 

[LISTENING]
Despite what you just read, it doesn't seem that releasing the genetically modified Aedes aegypti mosquitoes would be dangerous.
To begin with, there was a scientific study that analyzed the first concern you read about. This study looked at how the elimination of Aedes aegypti mosquitoes affected another species of mosquito, called the Asian tiger mosquito. The Asian tiger mosquito carries a particularly dangerous version of the dengue virus. The researchers observed that as the Aedes aegypti mosquitoes were eliminated, the Asian tiger mosquito population stayed basically the same. The tiger mosquitoes did not take over and spread the more dangerous version of the virus.
Second, the concern about mosquito bites. Well, here's the thing. The genetically modified mosquitoes that will be released will all be male. However, male mosquitoes do not bite people; only female mosquitoes bite people. So, the released genetically modified males will do their job of reducing the next generation of Aedes aegypti, but at the same time, they won't bite anyone. So, there's no reason to be concerned about the defective protein being passed to people through bites.
Third, it's true that the ecological effects of genetically modified organisms are hard to predict. However, most Aedes aegypti organisms introduced so far haven't had any serious negative effects on the ecosystem, as far as we know. The butterfly problem mentioned in the reading is pretty much an isolated case. So I wouldn't be too concerned. What's more important is that we know that using Aedes aegypti mosquitoes will probably have good ecological effects. We currently try to control Aedes aegypti mosquitoes through toxic pesticides, and these are pretty bad for the environment. But if we control the mosquitoes through this new method, we won't have to use toxic pesticides, which will be great for the ecosystem.