[READING]
The triceratops was a giant plant-eating dinosaur that lived in what is now western North America. The triceratops had a massive head that featured three horns and a large bony frill-or bone plate extending from the rear of its skull. Paleontologists have proposed a number of theories about the function of the triceratops frill.   
According to one theory, the two long horns above the eyes of the triceratops were used to attack other triceratopses, and the frill protected the animals head and neck. Some scientists who support this theory point to holes and other damage that are frequently present in triceratopses’ frill. They claim that these are evidence that horns were used to attack.
Another theory about the purpose of the frill is that it was used to attract mates during mating displays. Many animals use bright colors to demonstrate good health and physical maturity to potential mates.The frills of triceratopses have numerous large lines or grooves indicating that the frills contained blood vessels. When excited, the triceratops may have sent additional blood to these vessels in the frill causing the frill to grow brighter in color. The frills bright color may have played an important role in mating displays.
Finally, it has been proposed that the frill existed as support for long, powerful jaw muscles that aided in chewing. Triceratopses had beaks filled with sharp, scissor-like teeth that are unusual for plant eating animals. This fact has led some scientists to believe that triceratopses must have eaten food that was tough and difficult to chew. Consequently, triceratopses needed the increased chewing power they gained from enlarged jaw muscles that extended into the frill.

[LISTENING]
Despite what you just read, scientists do not agree on the function of the triceratops frill. There are reasons to doubt each of the proposed theories.
First, you read the holes found in the frills suggest that the frills were used as protection in fights between triceratops. The problem is that those holes were probably not caused by fighting. If the holes had been caused by fighting, they would have had a chance to heal a bit after the fights because those fights would not have been lethal. See, when bones heal, they develop special scars. But most of the holes in triceratops frills do not have healing scars, which means they never healed. Those holes were probably not caused by fights at all, but by some chronic bone disease that did not allow them to heal.
Second, it seems unlikely that the triceratops frill was used in mating displays. You see, scientists recently recovered the fossil of a very young triceratops, and that young triceratops already had a frill. If the frills were used for mating displays, we would expect frills to develop only when triceratops became sexually mature. The fact that triceratops already had frills when they were very young casts doubt on the theory that the frill’s function was connected to mating.
Third, about the jaw muscles, would long jaw muscles give the triceratops any advantage? Not necessarily. Due to the way muscles pull, long muscles are not stronger than short muscles. Today, large plant-eating animals like elephants have short jaw muscles but very strong jaws. In fact, long jaw muscles would actually be a disadvantage because they would have made triceratops vulnerable. See, if triceratops jaw muscles extended into the frill, that soft muscle tissue would have been exposed to attack by other animals like predators. Since long-exposed jaw muscles would have been quite vulnerable to attacks, this theory is unlikely.