[READING]
One of the oldest known games played by moving pieces on a board, called the passing game, was invented in Egypt roughly 5000 years ago. Ancient Egyptians continued playing the game for 3000 years. However, the game never spread outside of Egypt during that time. Scholars have proposed several explanations for why the game was never adopted by ancient cultures outside of Egypt.
Religious meaning: Some historians believe that the passing game had a religious significance for the ancient Egyptians. As evidence, they point to images of birds and other Egyptian religious symbols that decorate ancient passing game boards. It is possible that the game represented a story from Egyptian mythology or that participants meditated on religious themes while playing. This could explain why the passing game was not adopted outside of Egypt: a game closely related to the Egyptian religion would have been meaningless to cultures with different religions.
Poor game design: Some game experts have suggested that the passing game's design made it boring to play. They point out that the game relied mostly on luck and chance rather than skill and strategy, offering little that could hold someones interest. Players threw sticks and moved their game pieces across the board according to the result of the throw. While the ancient Egyptians may have kept playing it by tradition for thousands of years, the lack of strategic skills involved may have made the passing game rather boring, preventing it from spreading outside of Egypt.
Egyptian cultural attitude: A third possible explanation lies in the way the ancient Egyptians ran their empire. Egypt was a great power in the ancient world, sometimes conquering other areas. But, unlike many other ancient kingdoms, Egypt did not try to impose its own culture, religion, or language on the conquered areas. The failure of the passing game to spread could be due to the fact that the Egyptians were not interested in exporting their culture, including board games.

[LISTENING]
In fact, no one really knows why the passing game never spread outside of ancient Egypt.
First, the religious symbols mentioned in the reading cannot explain why the passing game never spread outside Egypt. You see, very early passing game boards, boards from the first thousand years of the game's existence, were not decorated with religious symbols. This suggests that religious meaning was not attached to the game until later. And yet, during the thousand years that the game apparently had no religious significance, it still didn't spread outside Egypt. So, the religious argument doesn't really work.
Second, okay, the passing game didn't require much skill or strategy, but was it boring? A picture of two passing game players found in an ancient Egyptian tomb suggests that it wasn't boring. The picture is accompanied by inscriptions revealing that the two players are arguing about who will win. These players don't seem bored, but rather highly involved in the game. Why would a game of chance get players excited? Well, games of chance can be exciting when they are a form of gambling, that is, played for money. Gambling was popular throughout the ancient world. So it's very possible that the passing game was a gambling game. As such, it was probably pretty exciting.
Third, it's true that the ancient Egyptians didn't force their culture on those they conquered. But this doesn't explain why the passing game never spread. You see, board games spread easily in the ancient world, often as a result of peaceful contact through trade. Military conquest was not required for these games to spread. The ancient Egyptians traded peacefully with many cultures, and some aspects of Egyptian culture, including games and pastimes, did spread as a result of trade. So, the ancient Egyptian attitude toward those they conquered does not explain why the passing game never spread.