[READING]
Not long ago, a species of seabird called Cassin's auklets died in unprecedented numbers on the western shores of the United States. Scientists do not know exactly what caused their death, but there are several factors that may have contributed to the die-off.
Increased Competition: First of all, it is known that the number of auklets born the summer before the die-off was significantly higher than average. With such a large population, it is possible that the young auklets were simply competing with each other for a limited amount of food. With increased competition for resources, it could be that food was spread thin across the population. Many birds were unable to find enough food and died off before the proper balance between the number of auklets and food resources was restored.
Virus: Another possibility is that the birds were affected by a virus. A few years ago in the same area, populations of sea animals known as sea stars were devastated by a virus that caused large numbers of them to become infected and die. The particular virus found to have caused those deaths is known to be excellent at adapting to different hosts. It is possible, therefore, that the auklets contracted the virus after coming into contact with or eating one or more infected species.
Zooplankton: Finally, scientists have recently discovered a large patch of unusually warm water, hundreds of miles across. This patch formed close to the time the die-off started. The change in water temperature likely had an effect on the populations of tiny sea creatures called zooplankton that auklets feed on. One study found that the zooplankton in that area of warmer water had become smaller and less nutritious than usual. This lack of nutrition may have contributed to the die-off.

[LISTENING]
Unfortunately, none of the suggestions you read about successfully explains or proves how the auklets died.
As for the suggestion that the die-off was caused by competition for food among baby auklets, well, that would be plausible if the numbers weren't just so striking. It's estimated that as many as 100,000 dead auklets were found; it was among the largest bird die-offs in history. Too many birds died to attribute the die-off to starvation alone. If there is competition for food, then after a certain number of auklets die, there would be enough food for the survivors, and the balance between auklets and food would be restored. But many more birds died than needed to restore the food balance, so this theory is simply not plausible.
Second, a virus infection would certainly be consistent with the sheer scale of the die-off. But normally, viruses remain in the body after death or at least leave some visible sign. The problem is that scientists who examine the dead auklets have so far been unable to find signs of disease or virus. This doesn't rule out the possibility of disease. It's still possible that the birds had a disease that was just not detectable after death. But until we see specific physical signs and evidence, we simply cannot prove that the deaths were caused by a virus or some other infection.
Lastly, most researchers agree that warmer water temperatures affected the quality of the zooplankton, the auklets' food source. Unfortunately, there's a glaring problem with this theory. Other species that rely on zooplankton as food remained in good health throughout the period the auklets were dying. There were many fish, such as salmon, that feed on the zooplankton. And there were many birds that ate those fish that feed on zooplankton. Why, then, were these other forms of animal life not affected? It seems there must have been some other reason the auklets were dying in record numbers.