[READING]
The toucan-a brightly marked bird of the tropics of the Americas --has long amazed people with its large, colorful bill. A third of the bird's entire length, the bill is longer than that of any other bird and is strikingly colored. Scientists have debated the question of why the toucan evolved such a bill. At least three theories have been proposed.
First, the toucan's bill is long and has saw-like edges, making it a potentially formidable weapon against predators. By jabbing with its bill, the toucan could deal a considerable blow to any animal trying to attack it. The sharp edges on the inside portion of its bill could also inflict damage if the toucan tried to fight off an enemy that had attacked it.
Second, the bill's shape and color could help the toucan hide in its tropical habitat by confusing potential predators. In the dim light of a dense tropical forest, a toucan's bill could easily be mistaken for a leaf or a piece of fruit. This illusion, in conjunction with the bird's brightly colored feathers that look like vegetation striped by shade and light, could provide truly effective camouflage protection.
Third, the toucan's bill could have evolved to help the bird coo itself by providing a large surface area through which excess heat can escape quickly. It is difficult for birds to lose heat through their bodies, since they are covered with insulating feathers. However, a toucan can effectively lose heat by pumping blood into its bill; from there the heat can easily radiate out. In a hot, tropical environment, it is important for birds to regulate their internal temperatures and prevent overheating.

[LISTENING]
Each of the theories in the reading about the toucan's bill sounds plausible. But when we look more closely at the bill itself and the toucan behavior, each of these theories has something questionable about it.
First, the toucan's bill may look like a weapon, but can it really function as one? It is mostly made up of a partly hollow bone that contains a lot of air. The bill is thus very light in weight, which is to be expected because a heavy bill of that size would prevent the toucan from being able to fly; but being thin and light weight, the toucan's bill could be easily damaged if it was used in the jabbing defensive manner described in the reading.
Second, toucans typically live in small flocks of about six birds. Members of the flock are very vocal, calling out and squawking continuously. It is difficult to argue that toucans use the color and shape of their bills to blend in with the vegetation in order to avoid predators when, at the same time, they draw attention to themselves through their noisy behavior.
Third, temperature control. Well, for one thing, most tropical birds managed to maintain healthy body temperatures without having an oversized bill. And besides, toucans have been observed at night hiding their bills in their feathers. This suggests that they're trying to protect themselves from losing too much heat through their bills. So, the toucan's bill may offer some advantage during the day when it's hot. But in cooler temperatures of the night, when animals are trying to retain their body heat, the fact that the toucan's bill has a large surface that allows heat to radiate out seems to become a problem.