[READING]
The famous English playwright William Shakespeare wrote a play about Richard III, a king who ruled England from 1483 to 1485. In the play, Richard is portrayed as an evil man who secretly orders the death of his two young nephews. There has been some controversy over whether Shakespeare's portrayal of Richard III is historically accurate. However, many historians agree that the real Richard III did in fact have his nephews killed. This view has been supported by several arguments. 
First, Richard had a strong motive to kill his nephews. The nephews were the sons of the previous king, Edward IV, who had died. They, not Richard, were next in line to become king. Richard's desire to be king was well-known; but he could become king only if the nephews were removed. Just that happened. Shortly after Richard was appointed as the boys' guardian, they disappeared, never to be seen again. With his access to the children, Richard could have easily arranged to have them murdered and so achieve his ambition to become king. 
Second, it was not only Shakespeare who took the view that Richard was guilty. Most writers at the time maintained that Richard III plotted his nephews' disappearance. Foremost among these writers was the famous historian Sir Thomas More. In his History of King Richard III, More stated that it was certain that Richard had ordered the deaths of his nephews. 
Third, there is even physical evidence supporting the view that the boys were killed while In Richard's care. In the 1600s, two skeletons were found at the Tower of London-the place where Richard had the nephews housed. These skeletons belonged to children approximately the same age as Richard's nephews when they disappeared. 

[LISTENING]
Each of the arguments for Richard's guilt has been challenged by other historians who are convinced that Richard had nothing to do with his nephews' disappearance.
First, just because Richard's nephews stood in his way doesn't mean that Richard had to kill them to become king himself. Richard used a different strategy to remove them as his competitors. He persuaded a law court to declare that the boys' parents had never been legally married. When their parents' marriage was no longer recognized by the law, the children became illegitimate, which meant that they lost their right to become kings. Since they were no longer obstacles to Richards becoming king himself, he had no reason to harm them.
Second, we have to be skeptical of the claims of the writers who accused Richard the Third of murder. Most of them were not independent observers but were associated with Richard's enemies, the Tudor family. The Tudors rebelled against Richard and removed him from the throne so they could become England's royal family. They wanted to accuse Richard of murder because it justified their own takeover of the kingdom. Now, Thomas Moore and William Shakespeare, two authors who wrote that Richard was guilty of the murders, were both supported by the tutors. So, the historical accuracy of what they wrote about Richard should not be taken for granted.
Third, the skeletons found in the Tower of London. Actually, the likelihood that the skeletons belong to Richard's nephews is quite small. It's impossible to establish the age of the children accurately from the skeletons, and it's even impossible to tell whether they were boys or girls. Families with children had lived in the Tower of London for hundreds of years before the 1600s. Many of those children had died there. And the skeletons in question could belong to any of them.