[READING]
Lions are the only species of large cats that live in groups. Female lions especially tend to band together, forming prides (extended family groups) with their daughters, sisters, and cousins. This unique evolutionary trait must yield important benefits to the survival of the species. Researchers have identified several possible reasons why lions have evolved to live in groups, when most other cats, such as leopards, tigers, and cheetahs, do not.
First, some researchers suggest that female lions have evolved to live in groups because they benefit from feeding their young cooperatively. Within a pride, female lions that give birth around the same time form a nursery group and are almost inseparable for the next one to two years. Long-term observation of lions in the wild confirms that young cubs can nurse (drink milk) from any female in the nursery group, not just their own mother.
Second, lions employ hunting tactics that require group cooperation. Research shows that lions perform highly differentiated roles in group hunts. For example, some lions almost always join a hunt only in its final stages, after other lions have begun chasing the prey. Cooperative hunting seems to be precisely coordinated to maximize the chances of catching challenging prey. Living in groups,therefore, may help lions to obtain food more efficiently.
Finally, some zoologists have proposed that female lions form social groups to defend their cubs from danger. Adult male lions are the biggest threat to cubs. Sometimes a male lion takes over a female group, and when this happens the male attempts to kill all cubs in the group so that the mothers will be ready to mate and reproduce again. Male lions are larger than females, and it takes several females to chase away a male. If males were able to kill cubs frequently, there might not be enough cubs reaching adulthood, so females form groups to repel takeover attempts by males.

[LISTENING]
None of the theories mentioned in the reading can fully explain why lions live in groups.
First, about female lions forming prides to cooperatively feed their young, it's true that lion cubs can be observed attempting to nurse from female lions that aren't their mothers, but these attempts usually don't go very well. You see, the cubs only attempt this when the female lion is asleep. And when the female lion wakes up, she immediately chases away those cubs that are not her own. Since cubs' attempts to steal milk in this way are quickly discouraged, cubs probably don't get any real food benefit from this behavior. So, the behavior does not support the idea that female lions form prides to feed their young cooperatively.
Second, scientists who have observed hunts find that single lions are perfectly capable of getting enough food alone. It's true that multiple lions often cooperate to take down a larger, more challenging prey, such as buffalo and zebras, and share what they catch. But just as often, a single lion will successfully pursue smaller, easier prey, such as wild pigs, and won't have to share with others. Consequently, lions that live in groups actually do not receive better nutrition than those that live alone.
Finally, it's true that it takes several female lions to repel a male invader. But the need to protect cubs doesn't seem to be the main reason that lions form social groups. For one thing, childless females with no cubs to defend have been observed living together in social groups. Male lions, too, form social groups called coalitions, consisting of up to seven adult males. Since lions of both sexes form groups, even in the absence of cubs, protecting cubs doesn't seem to be the main reason that lions are social.