[READING]
Burning fossil fuels (coal, natural gas and oil) for energy purposes releases a gas called carbon dioxide (CO2) into the atmosphere. The ever-increasing levels of CO2in the atmosphere contribute to global warming and thus harm the environment. In order to combat global warming, scientists have proposed capturing CO2 from industrial facilities that use fossil fuels and storing it underground. The captured CO2 would be transported to storage sites and injected into deep underground rocks. However, there are several significant challenges that make it difficult to store CO2 underground.
Storage: First, there is the question of whether locations proposed for storing CO2 have enough space. The burning of fossil fuels around the world releases billions of tons of CO2 into the atmosphere annually. In order to make a considerable difference in combating global warming, most of the released CO2 would need to be captured and stored underground. It is not clear whether underground sites suitable for CO2 storage have enough space.
Health Risks: Second, if CO2 escapes from underground storage sites, it can pose risks to human health. CO2 leaks may occur if, for example, unforeseen natural processes or forces create cracks in the ground above the storage site. Although the normal atmospheric levels of CO2 are harmless, high concentrations of CO2 may be unsafe, causing headaches, tiredness. and possibly even death. 
High Costs: Finally, a wide range of costs are associated with the process of storing CO2 underground. First, new technologies for capturing and storing CO2 that currently do not exist will have to be created. In addition, new infrastructure, such as pipelines transporting CO2 from industrial facilities to storage sites, will have to be built. All of these requirements will likely result in very high costs for constructing and operating CO2 storage systems.

[LISTENING]
Actually, there are ways to overcome or at least significantly reduce each of the obstacles you just read about.
First, storage. Well, carbon dioxide is a gas under normal conditions. Gases definitely take up lots of space, but if the CO2 is exposed to high pressures and high temperatures before being stored underground, it will transform from a gas into a supercritical fluid. Supercritical fluids are more compressed and, therefore, occupy less space than gases. If we process CO2 at high pressures and temperatures and then store it as a supercritical fluid, it will take up less space, which decreases the need for so much storage space.
Second, we can minimize the health risks of CO2 leaks based on research that has been done on them. Carbon dioxide leaking from the underground storage units usually stays close to the ground. This means that people would only get sick if they breathe the air close to the ground. For example, if they were sleeping on the ground while camping. So, we can take appropriate safety measures; we can install monitoring devices in areas where CO2 is stored. When the monitoring devices detect CO2, they will sound a warning to alert people to leave the area quickly and not breathe the air close to the ground.
Finally, some of the costs can actually be offset by financial benefits. For example, some of the sites suitable for CO2 storage are deep underground layers of rock that contain another gas called methane. When carbon dioxide is injected into those rocks, the rocks release methane gas. Methane is commercially valuable as a fuel, and so the methane released at the storage sites can be collected and sold. Profits from selling methane can at least partly make up for the high costs of carbon dioxide storage.