[READING]
The production of electricity in nuclear power plants generates radioactive waste as a by-product. The waste is often placed in canisters (containers), but it remains radioactive for thousands of years, emitting invisible radiation that is harmful to humans and other living things. Scientists are currently discussing several strategies for safely storing the canisters; they need to be stored for thousands of years until the waste loses its radioactivity.
Surface Storage: One option is to store the canisters in permanent structures above ground. If properly constructed from a radiation-blocking material like concrete, such structures should remain sealed for thousands of years. Clear instructions would ensure the structures are properly maintained so that the material does not leak out and cause damage. In addition, signs with written warnings would be posted throughout storage sites to clearly indicate the purpose of the structures.
Borehole Disposal: Another option is to store the canisters in boreholes--long, vertical holes dug deep down into the earth. The waste would be lowered into the bottom of the borehole, and the remaining space filled and sealed with radiation-blocking material. Engineers already have considerable experience drilling boreholes for experimental purposes and oil exploration. In the proper area, boreholes are stable and relatively inexpensive to create.
lce Sheet Storage: Another solution is to store the canisters under the large, uninhabited surface of solid ice that has covered Antarctica for thousands of years. Radioactive waste produces a small amount of heat, so if a canister with waste were placed on the ice sheet, its heat would melt enough ice to allow it to sink farther and farther down. As it sinks, the melted ice layers above it would freeze again, sealing the waste off from the surface. Under this ice sheet, the waste should remain isolated from the surface long enough to lose its radioactivity.

[LISTENING]
Unfortunately, there are problems with each of the storage methods discussed in the reading.
First, storing radioactive material above ground is risky once you realize that this storage has to continue safely for thousands of years. Thousands of years! In a few thousand years, people will probably not even use nuclear energy anymore. As future generations stop using nuclear technologies, they'll probably forget how dangerous radioactive waste really is. They will stop maintaining these structures properly, and then the waste could leak out. And languages change over time, too. So, in a couple of thousand years, when people speak quite different languages, they may not even understand what the warning signs that the storage sites say. Then, they could expose themselves to radiation.
Second, the boreholes we're using today are stable only because they're narrow, up to 50 centimeters in diameter. However, radioactive waste canisters are large and would require boreholes about twice as wide. These larger holes might be unstable. The rock that surrounds bore holes experiences all kinds of stress because of geological forces. If the bore hole is too wide, the stress can crush it. If a borehole gets crushed, the canister stored in the hole would be crushed, too, and the radioactive waste could leak out.
Finally, storing waste inside an ice sheet might not be safe either. You have to take into account climate change, global warming. The problem is that global warming changes the way the Antarctic ice behaves. For example, global warming makes the ice sheets less stable. There is more movement within the ice sheets than there was in the past. Because of this, the canisters might not stay in one location beneath the ice for a long period of time. Instead, the canisters could be quickly transported by the moving ice to unexpected locations or even to the ocean that surrounds Antarctica. As the canisters move, the waste could leak out and cause contamination, so the waste would not be safely contained.