[READING]
The Russian thistle has an unusual method of spreading its seeds. It lives for a year, and when it dies, the top part of the plant dries up and separates from its roots. This dried tangle of leaves and branches—known as a tumbleweed—is blown along the ground by the wind, releasing seeds as it travels. Russian thistle is not native to the United States but has become established there as an invasive species. Invasive species are often considered harmful, but some scientists point out that this plant offers a number of benefits.
Food for Farmers’ Animals: First, Russian thistle can grow in dry areas where many other plants cannot, and it can survive long periods of little or no rain. It also has some nutritional value and can be eaten by large animals such as cows. In times of drought, when other plants cannot grow because of lack of rain, farmers can sometimes help their animals get enough nutrition by feeding them Russian thistle.
Habitat Creation: Second, Russian thistle can grow up to a meter high. As it often grows in regions with no trees, its size sometimes makes it the largest plant in the area. It thus creates valuable habitats for animals that would otherwise have no place to live. Small mammals and birds can take shelter under Russian thistles.
Soil Improvement: Finally, Russian thistle can grow in damaged soil where many native plants cannot. Once Russian thistle begins to grow in damaged soil, a fungus sometimes infects its roots. This fungus does two things. It weakens the Russian thistle, and it benefits certain native plants. As the fungus spreads in the soil, it supports the return of native plants to damaged areas, where they can then grow and flourish in the soil again, thanks to the fungus.

[LISTENING]
Russian thistle does offer some benefits, but it's not as helpful as the reading suggests and can actually cause problems.
Now, it's true farmers have sometimes helped their animals during droughts by feeding them Russian thistles, but this can be very dangerous. You see, under certain conditions, Russian thistle can absorb high levels of nitrogen from the soil and store it in the form of nitrate. Even fairly small amounts of nitrate can be very poisonous to certain animals, such as cows, killing them within just a few hours. So, feeding Russian thistle to farm animals is not always safe.
Second, the Russian thistle probably destroys more habitat than it creates. That's because tumbleweeds help spread wildfires. Natural fires are common in dry areas of the United States. Normally, empty areas of land, places where there is no vegetation to burn, are natural barriers that stop the spread of wildfires. But tumbleweeds can catch fire and be blown by the wind across natural barriers, starting new fires in other areas. Many habitats are destroyed by these fires, and very few animals can live where the vegetation has burned away.
Finally, the fungus that infects Russian thistle can sometimes improve damage to soil for native plants. But this is rare. You see, the fungus is only found in the uppermost part of the soil. Now, in areas where lots of Russian thistle grows, the upper part of the soil often dries out and is blown away in the wind. This happens because the Russian thistle is very efficient at taking water out of the soil. So, when there's a lot of Russian thistles, the soil will become very dry and blow away easily. And when the dry soil gets blown away by the wind, the fungus gets blown away, too. So, the soil remains damaged and unable to support native plants.