[READING]
During the day, most plants position their leaves so the leaves can collect sunlight. However, at night, some plants fold their leaves. There is no general agreement about why this occurs, but there are several competing theories as to why it might be beneficial for plants to fold up their leaves at night.
Protection Against Cold: First, some scientists believe that plants fold their leaves at night to protect themselves against the cold. An open leaf has a large surface area exposed to the air, which means it will readily lose heat on a cold night. A folded leaf has less of its surface exposed to the air, and will lose less heat. By folding their leaves at night, plants may protect their leaves from freezing.
Protection Against Infection: Folding leaves may be a mechanism to keep the leaves from getting wet if it rains. Leaves are vulnerable to diseases caused by fungal infection. When leaves are wet, the chance of infection is greater, since fungal spores (small particles through which fungi reproduce) require water to spread to new locations. If the leaves stay dry, the risk of fungal infection is reduced.
Elimination of Nighttime Light: Finally, many plants need to keep track of the time of year in order to produce flowers at the right time. These plants often keep track of the season based on how much sunlight there is in a day. Plants' sense of time can be distorted when their leaves are exposed to sources of light at night, such as moonlight. The purpose of folding leaves may be to limit leaf exposure to nighttime light, which may help plants track the seasons more accurately.

[LISTENING]
The author of the passage you read described a few theories about why some plants fold their leaves at night. However, none of the theories is very convincing.
First, studies of plants in cold climates have shown that folding their leaves at night doesn't help them much. That's probably because plants don't have a source of internal heat, so their internal temperature in cold weather is pretty low to begin with. If the outside temperature stays below freezing for some time, the plants soon suffer freezing damage, no matter how their leaves are positioned. That's exactly what the study shows. Plants that do fold their leaves suffer basically as much freezing damage as those that don't. So folding leaves does not seem like good protection against cold.
Second, folding isn't likely to protect leaves from fungal infections. Folded leaves aren't completely protected from water. At least a little bit of water is still likely to get through to them if there is a rainstorm at night. And fungal spores require only a small amount of water to travel, which means that even if the leaves are folded, the spores will have the opportunity to infect them.
Third, many plants live in environments where their leaves are not exposed to nighttime light sources. For instance, the plants that grow in very densely shaded areas of forests are completely sheltered from bright moonlight. And yet, some plants that grow in these shaded areas also fold their leaves at night. These plants can't be folding their leaves to protect against light sources because there isn't any moonlight reaching the forest floor where they grow. So again, there must be some other reason for them to fold their leaves.