[READING]
In recent years, wind energy as a source of renewable and clear energy has become increasingly popular. Unfortunately, wind energy has one significant environmental drawback: fast-moving turbine blades pose serious threats to birds flying through wind farms. Various strategies are now being considered to make wind farm turbines safer for birds.
Radar: One method involves installing radar devices in wind turbines. The purpose of the radar devices is to scan the landscape and detect when groups of birds are approaching the wind farm. Once the devices identify the birds on the horizon, they capture images of the landscape and notify wind farm operators. After examining the radar images, the wind farm operators can temporarily shut down the wind turbines to allow the birds to fly safely through the wind farm.
Purple paint: Another option is to paint wind turbines purple. The conventional colors of wind turbines are white and gray. These colors are usually used so that the turbines blend into the background. However, these colors also attract insects. A high concentration of insects, in turn, draws in birds that prey on the insects. Scientists have recently reported that purple is the least attractive color for the insects. Therefore, if wind turbines are painted purple, they will attract fewer insects, and fewer birds will come close to the turbine blades.
Sound alarm: A third way is concerned with using a sound alarm system to warn birds of wind turbines in front of them. While flying, most birds look to the side and down, as their eyes are located on the sides of their heads and their bodies are in a horizontal position. The sound projected by the wind farm would alert birds, and it is believed that it would make them look ahead and fly slower or stop flying completely. The sound alarm systems would likely save birds from the danger posed by wind turbines.

[LISTENING]
Unfortunately, the strategies you just read about are all problematic and are unlikely to make wind farms safer for birds.
First, there's a serious problem with trying to protect groups of birds using the radar system described in the reading. The problem is it can take up to 45 minutes to completely turn off wind turbines. So even though radar can detect a group of birds while it's still some distance from the wind farm, the birds will probably reach the wind turbines long before those turbines have completely shut down. And, as for individual birds flying alone, a radar system has no chance of saving them as they cannot be detected by radar the way groups of birds can.
Second, purple paint. The issue of what attracts insects and, consequently, birds to wind turbines seems to be much more complex than simply paint color. Let me tell you more about just a couple of possible factors: heat and ultraviolet light.
A lot of heat is generated by wind turbines. This heat is possibly what actually attracts insects, not paint color. Moving to the other factor, some of the paints used on wind turbines reflect ultraviolet light that may equally attract insects. That is because insects can see ultraviolet light, which appeals to them. So painting wind turbines purple won't keep insects away, and that's bad for birds.
Finally, the sound alarm systems have some problems as well. As you know, the environment has some already existing noises, such as vehicles passing by. These noises may interfere with the sounds from the alarm systems. This means that the sound of the alarm has to be very strong and unique to be different from the surrounding noises. All of this will make the alarm too loud and disturbing for nearby wildlife and people working in the area. So, sound alarm systems may not be the best way to protect birds from wind turbines.