[READING]
On a recent New Year's Day, residents of a North American town awoke to discover that thousands of birds had died the night before and that their bodies were lying in open spaces and in the roads. The dead birds had apparently fallen out of the sky during the night. Some people suggested that fireworks in celebration of the New Year were responsible for the birds' deaths. According to this theory, the loud sounds of the fireworks had awakened the birds; the startled birds began flying in the dark, striking buildings, power lines, and trees. The fireworks theory was supported by several observations.
First, the timing of the birds’ deaths seemed to be connected to the fireworks. The fireworks were set off just before midnight, and some people reported seeing birds falling from the sky right at midnight.
Second, examination of the birds’ bodies indicated a possible cause of the deaths. The examination did not find any evidence that the birds had been poisoned or that they had suffered from a disease. Instead, all the birds appeared to have died from injuries caused by impact, indicating the birds hit something at great speed. Such injuries would have occurred, if, as proposed, the startled birds had flown into buildings, power lines, or trees.
Finally, most of the dead birds were the same species, red-winged blackbirds. These birds have poor night vision and generally avoid flying at night. Red-winged blackbirds would be particularly vulnerable to striking unseen objects in the dark. And since any night flying by red-winged blackbirds is extremely rare, only an unusual event, like the fireworks, would cause so many of these birds to take to the air at the same time.

[LISTENING]
The cause of the birds' deaths discussed in the reading selection is still under investigation. However, it's already clear that the arguments supporting the fireworks theory are not convincing.
First, the timing of the deaths and the fireworks. The problem with this part of the theory is that that same night, there was another location at which birds died in great numbers. That location, however, was outside the town, too far from the fireworks for the birds to have been frightened by them. Since the cause of the bird deaths was very likely the same in both cases, fireworks probably didn't have anything to do with the deaths of the birds either in the town or outside it.
Second, the evidence that the birds died of injuries caused by impact. Well, this does not necessarily mean that the impact happened as the birds flew into buildings, power lines, or trees. The injuries may have been caused just by the birds striking the ground as they fell from the sky. In fact, witnesses did see birds falling to the ground in areas without any buildings or trees. So what caused the birds to fall, then? Maybe there was a sudden drop in air pressure or a strong wind, but neither of those would be connected with fireworks.
Third, the reading suggests that the reason there were so many red-winged blackbirds among the dead birds is that red-winged blackbirds have poor night vision. But there's a much simpler explanation for why so many dead birds were blackbirds. Quite simply, the red-winged blackbird is the most common bird in the area. Red-winged blackbirds would probably be the most common victims of any event that caused bird deaths. So, the fact that there were so many dead blackbirds doesn't really provide any special support for the fireworks theory.