[READING]
The Mediterranean island of Malta is home to a puzzling archaeological site that consists of a collection of pairs of parallel lines, or grooves, carved into the rock of the ground. These grooves, thought to be at least a few thousand years old, can be quite long, and they seem to connect various locations on the island. There are several theories that attempt to explain the origin of the grooves.
One theory suggests that the grooves were carved as irrigation channels to carry water. Ancient societies, like those on Malta, depended heavily on agriculture, and agriculture requires having enough water for crops to grow. The grooves are large enough to carry a significant volume of water, and given that Malta has limited freshwater resources, it may be that the grooves served the purpose of irrigation.
Another view is that the grooves were made by wheeled vehicles, such as carts used to transport objects. If carts traveled over the same path repeatedly, their wheels could have created noticeable grooves in the rock. Similar-looking tracks have been found at other locations around the world, but the Maltese grooves stand out because they are much deeper. This may be because the rock in Malta consists mostly of soft limestone, which can easily be worn away, especially when wet. Given the softness of the Maltese limestone, it is possible that carts left the deep grooves.
Finally, the Maltese grooves may have been created to serve some astronomical purpose. Many ancient cultures closely studied the planets and stars, and some of those cultures carved marks or grooves into rock that appear to have been used to make astronomical observations. Some ancient stone grooves found elsewhere in Europe have been shown to have connections to the movements of the Sun and planets. So, the Maltese grooves may also have been made by ancient astronomers who used them to predict the locations of the Sun and planets.

[LISTENING]
Unfortunately, none of the theories about the purpose or origin of the Maltese grooves is convincing.
First, it doesn't seem that these grooves could have been used as irrigation channels. You see, when ancient peoples built irrigation channels, they built them so that the water from a lake or stream could flow down to a low-line area where crops could be grown. But some of the Maltese grooves go downhill and uphill repeatedly as they travel over a number of hills. This would be a problem if they were designed to carry water. Water poured into these grooves wouldn't get very far because gravity wouldn't let the water flow uphill. So, the grooves couldn't have worked as irrigation channels.
Second, the idea that the grooves were carved out by carts; well, it's just not complete. You see, in the ancient world, carts were usually pulled by animals such as horses, or oxen, animals with hard hooves on their feet. Because the limestone on Malta is especially soft, these hooves should have also left visible marks in the limestone. But in fact, there's no trace of hoof marks in the area of the grooves. This suggests that the Maltese grooves were not made by carts pulled by animals.
Finally, there's less reason to suspect that the Maltese groups had an astronomical function than the reading suggests. You see, grooves found in other parts of Europe differ from those on Malta in a crucial way: They are very straight. Because they're straight, each group points in one particular direction. Scientists discovered that these straight groups point exactly to the locations of some important astronomical events. For example, the location of the sun on the first day of spring. Now, the Maltese grooves are not straight. They change direction frequently over many meters. Their orientation appears quite random and has no recognizable connection with astronomical events in the sky.