[READING]
The Olmec Empire was an ancient civilization that flourished in Central America from about 1200 to 400 B.C.E. While the Olmec created striking art and architecture, historians are not certain that they developed a system of writing. Researchers have recently discovered a stone block in Mexico that they claim is engraved with Olmec writing. But is it really evidence of Olmec writing? Many experts have serious doubts about that for the following reasons.
No similar objects: First, the stone block is the only Olmec object that appears to bear sins of writing. When a culture develops writing, the writing appears repeatedly on many objects. But, while many other stone blocks have been found at Olmec sites, none of them have similar markings. This suggests that the markings on the recently found block do not represent a writing system.
Signs may be decorative: Second, the signs on the block may have a different purpose than writing. Many of the signs look similar to designs and shapes found on ancient Olmec artwork such as figurines and masks. The designs on Olmec artwork are decorative or perhaps have religious symbolism but are clearly not written language. The similarities of the signs on the discovered block to decorative or religious designs suggest that the block may simply be an example of Olmec art and not evidence of an Olmec writing system.
Origin: Finally, the discovered stone block may not even date from the Olmec times. Archaeologists generally date ancient objects by examining their original position in the ground. However, the block was found and dug up by local road workers who simply put the block in a large pile of other materials before noting its historical value. Since archeologists were unable to observe the block's position in the ground, establishing the block's true date and origin is difficult.

[LISTENING]
The stone block from Mexico is a genuine Olmec writing.
First, it's true that it's the only Olmec object that contains writing, but remember that stone objects can experience significant weather damage; the weathering effects of humidity, rain, and other factors will often erase any written inscriptions, especially on objects that are more than 2,000 years old. Our Olmec block may be a rare example of an object that somehow avoided these weathering effects. Maybe the stone was buried in a type of soil that protected it from damage. In other words, many other Olmec stone blocks may have originally contained inscriptions, but on most of them, the inscriptions have been erased by weathering. But since this block may have been protected by a special type of soil, it has avoided damage, and its inscription has survived.
Second, the markings probably do represent writing and not just artistic designs or decorations. When you look at how the signs on the block are arranged, you'll find that the arrangement is typical of written language but not of artistic designs. The signs on the block are arranged in separate groups. Such groups may represent words or sentences. Also, some signs are repeated several times, just like some syllables or words are repeated in written texts; ordering signs in groups and repeating signs are typical of writing. Decorative designs are not arranged in that way.
Finally, scientists did find a way to date the block. You see, some ancient pottery was found next to the block. Ancient pottery can be dated based on its style, its shapes, its decorations, etcetera. The pottery found at the site had a very specific style that clearly shows that it was made during the Olmec period. Since the pottery and the stone block were found together, we can be confident the block dates to the Olmec period, too.