[READING]
In 2012, the remains (bones) of a man were discovered at the site of a former church in England. Certain features suggested that these remains belonged to Richard III, who died in 1485—the last English king killed in battle. Many historians were excited by the possibility that Richard III's remains had been discovered after so many centuries. However, new evidence indicates that these remains cannot be those of Richard III.
First, the man's hair color seems incorrect for Richard III. DNA evidence recovered from the remains showed that the man had DNA associated with blond hair. However, Richard III is depicted as a man with brown hair in all of his existing portraits, making it doubtful that the remains belong to Richard III.
Second, the remains seem to be too old to be those of Richard III. Researchers used a technique called radiocarbon dating to examine the level of radioactive carbon in the remains and thus determine how old the bones were. This dating revealed that the remains were from a man who died in the first half of the fifteenth century. Since Richard III died in the second half of the fifteenth century, in 1485, the remains are too old to be those of the English king.
Finally, the remains did not show any signs of wounds or injuries, except the fatal ones at the time of the man's death. Richard III was an experienced military commander who had been in many battles and had been involved in dangerous fighting. Therefore, his remains would likely contain marks on the bones of healed wounds from his previous battles. However, the remains of the man found in the church showed no evidence of healed wounds.

[LISTENING]
In fact, most historians still believe that the remains are those of Richard the 3rd. Here's why:
First, the DNA evidence; what DNA can tell us for sure is someone's hair color as a child. What it cannot tell us is whether that person's hair remained blonde. It sometimes happens that people who have DNA for blonde hair have blonde hair only as children, but then their hair becomes darker during adolescence. The same seems to have been true for Richard the 3rd. As a child, he may have had blonde hair that became darker later in his life, as shown in his portraits.
Second, the remains aren't as old as the radiocarbon dating suggested. You see, we can tell from the man's teeth that he ate lots of fish and other seafood. And it so happens that humans who eat lots of seafood have lower levels of radioactive carbon in their bones than we would expect to see. And these lower levels of radioactive carbon make the bones appear to be older than they really are. Understanding this, researchers have now established that the remains were not as old as they first appeared to be. They were instead from a man who likely died late in the 15th century, which just happens to be when Richard the 3rd died.
Finally, despite Richard the third's involvement in battles, it's possible that he was never wounded in any of those battles. As a member of the royal family, Richard the 3rd probably wore the best armor: special protective clothing available at the time. This armor would have protected him quite well in battle. At most, he would have received only some minor injuries, such as skin bruises, and those injuries would not have left any marks on his bones. So, it's not surprising that the remains showed no evidence of healed wounds from his old battles.