[READING]
In 1889, an archaeologist named Cresson presented to the public what appeared to be an ancient Native American carving of a woolly mammoth on a fragment of shell. Its two small holes suggested that it was worn as a pendant around the neck. While some experts suspect the object might be a forgery (a fake), others believe that it is genuine and proves that ancient Native Americans once lived alongside woolly mammoths. The experts who believe that the pendant was truly created by ancient Native Americans use the following arguments.
First, the carving on the pendant is similar to other ancient carvings of mammoths. The stylistic similarity to other ancient carvings supports the pendant's ancient origin.
Second, Cresson claimed to have found the pendant alongside a number of genuine old items produced by Native Americans. These items included stone tools and arrowheads. If the pendant was discovered alongside genuine old items, it is likely that the carving itself is genuine as well.
Third, the pendant has uniform weathering. Weathering is the damage to all old objects caused by long exposure to water, soil chemicals, and other environmental factors. If someone created the pendant as a modern forgery by carving an image of a mammoth on a piece of old shell, the carving would show little weathering, while the rest of the shell surface would be highly weathered. But that is not the case-the carving and the rest of the shell as a whole show the same degree of weathering, which suggests that both the carving and the shell date to the same ancient time period.

[LISTENING]
Actually, many archaeologists believe that the pendant is not a real ancient object. Many of us think it is a modern fake created by Cresson with the intention of misleading and deceiving the public. Here's why we are not convinced by the arguments you read:
First, it's true that the carving shows similarities to other ancient carvings of mammoths. The problem is that this pendant is actually too similar to one specific carving that was found in France. That suggests that Cresson actually used the French carving of a mammoth as a model for his forgery. This seems likely for one particular reason. The French carving was damaged, and the feet of the mammoth are missing, and Cresson's pendant carving is also missing its feet, even though there's plenty of space available for feet. This suggests that Cresson copied his pendant from the damaged French carving and did not even complete the missing feet.
Second, let's take a closer look at those other Native American items that Cresson said he found together with the pendant. The problem is that those other items are from a completely different time period than the supposed time period of the pendant. The pendant is supposed to be really ancient and dates from several thousand years ago. The other items date from only a few hundred years ago. All these objects don't really belong together, and so Cresson's claim that he found them together was probably a lie.
And third, the pendant weathering does not look right either. The pendant was supposedly buried underground for thousands of years in a very damaging chemical environment. If this were true, the weathering would be much stronger than it is. There would be so much damage that we probably could not even see the carving anymore. Instead, the weathering is relatively minor; that again suggests that this object is a modern, fake.