[READING]
Around 2,500 years ago, two of the largest cultures in Europe were the ancient Greek culture and the Celtic culture. The two cultures came into contact in several areas of Europe. Many historians believe that the Celtic people found the rich and advanced ancient Greek culture so impressive that they adopted much of it as their own. As a result, the Celtic culture in many regions became Greek-like.
Festive Meals: An important cultural custom of the Greeks was holding festive meals, during which the assembled guests, usually wealthy and prominent people, lay on comfortable sofas, drank wine from special ornate vessels, listened to music, and discussed topics such as philosophy. Greek drinking vessels were found at many Celtic archaeological sites among artifacts left behind by prominent Celts. This suggests that the Celts adopted the Greek custom of festive meals and used Greek pottery during those feasts.
Language: Another indication of the influence of the Greek culture is the use of the Greek language among Celts. For example, there is historical evidence that a number of Celts in areas close to Greek settlements became bilingual (fluent in both Greek and Celtic languages). From this evidence, historians conclude that the Greek language became common among some Celtic elites and speaking Greek became an important aspect of being refined and educated among the Celts.
Artwork: Finally, Celtic art and handicrafts were also heavily influenced by Greek art and handicrafts. New decorative designs based on African and Asian animals and plants—lotus flowers, lions, and palm tree leaves—appeared in Greek artwork during this period. The new Greek designs were inspired by African and Asian cultures. Interestingly, similar designs soon began to appear in Celtic art as well. The likely explanation is that Celtic artists started copying the new Greek designs.

[LISTENING]
Contrary to the passage, the Celtic people were not that impressed with Greek culture. They did not adopt Greek influences into their culture in the way the passage talks about. The Celtic culture remained very different from the culture of the ancient Greeks.
First, finding Greek drinking vessels at Celtic sites doesn't mean that the Celts had festive meals in the Greek style. Many historical sources show that the Celts have their own tradition of festive meals, and that tradition changed very little after their contact with the Greeks. They did occasionally use Greek drinking vessels, it's true. But they didn't adopt any other aspects of Greek feasts. Celts from all levels of society took part in the feast, not just the rich people like it was with the Greeks. The Celts sat at their meals instead of lying down, and the Celts did not discuss philosophy. Instead, they just chatted, argued, and often even fought one another.
Second, it's not surprising that some Celts who were in contact with the Greeks learned the Greek language. But that doesn't mean that learning the Greek language became part of the education of Celtic elites. The explanation is much simpler. The Celts and the Greeks traded with one another, and so some of the Celtic traders learned the Greek language to do business with the Greeks. That doesn't mean that they thought that learning Greek made a person more cultured or refined.
Finally, Celtic artists didn't necessarily use palm leaf or lion designs because they wanted to copy the Greeks. The Celts were in direct contact with African and Asian cultures at that time and could have been inspired by African and Asian designs independently of the Greeks. More importantly, Celtic art continued to have many distinctive elements completely different from Greek art. Greek art is filled with human figures representing stories from Greek mythology. But the Celtic artwork was decorated just with plant, animal, or geometric shapes, not with human figures, and it did not depict any stories at all.