[READING]
Octopi (plural of octopus) are eight-legged animals that live almost exclusively in the sea, feeding on small crabs, and other marine prey. Their physiology and behavior are fairly well understood. A recent report, however, surprised scientific experts: dozens of octopi were seen crawling on a sandy beach. This behavior was very unexpected because octopi cannot survive on land for more than several minutes. Indeed, most of the octopi found crawling on the beach quickly died. Three possible explanations have been proposed for the unusual behavior of these octopi.
Search for food: Some scientists view the search for food as a likely explanation. Recently, octopi populations have been facing shortages in available food. As a result, octopi have increased their hunting activity in shallow waters, near the shoreline, where they search for prey such as crabs. It is possible that a group of octopi were hunting too close to the shoreline, and when the sea receded withdrew, the octopi were left stranded on land.
Female die-off: Mature female octopi lay eggs and guard them until they hatch. Once the eggs hatch, female octopi feed less, become worn out and disoriented, and eventually, die off. It is possible that a group of female octopi nearing the end of life might have become disoriented and confused and so crawled out of the sea.
Recent storms: A final explanation is that major storms that took place in the area forced the octopi to escape from the sea onto the beach. Storms create strong underwater currents that can injure animals. Also, low atmospheric pressure associated with storms may cause changes in the behavior of some sea animals. Perhaps the octopi wanted to escape the local waters because of the injuries caused by the stormy seas or because of the low atmospheric pressure. Unfortunately, they ended up on the beach.

[LISTENING]
Unfortunately, the explanations you read about are not convincing enough. The reason why dozens of octopi stranded themselves on the British beach remains a mystery.
First, it's true that some octopi hunt for crabs near the shoreline. However, research shows that octopi are solitary hunters. They typically hunt alone, not in groups. So, if some octopi got stranded on shore while hunting, we would expect to find stranded octopi just here and there, far from each other, wherever the separate individuals got stranded during their solitary hunting. But in the case of the octopi found stranded on the British beach, dozens of them were found crawling on land together in a small area. Clearly, hunting behavior cannot explain this unusual occurrence.
Before evaluating the second theory that these were mature females at the end of their lives, let's make one thing clear first. The octopi were found by local people living in the area. These people were not biology experts. For example, they could not determine whether the octopi were males or females. The local people only reported that the octopi were quite energetic in their movements, and they were relatively small, suggesting these for young individuals. So, taking together, we have reports of small, energetic octopi of an unknown sex. This does not fit the theory that these were large, mature females that were worn out and slow in their movements. So, the female die-off explanation does not seem convincing enough.
Finally, we simply don't have enough evidence that the octopi were escaping a stormy sea. For one thing, observers on the beach said that the octopi did not have any visible injuries, as the reading suggests would happen in a storm. As for atmosphere pressure, scientists have extensively researched whether animals like octopi are sensitive to low atmospheric pressure at all. Until they do, these are no more than speculations.