[READING]
Honeysuckle is a plant that grows in dense clusters and produces fruit in the form of berries. A species of honeysuckle that was brought to North America from East Asia for ornamental purposes has spread extremely rapidly in the wild and is now classified as an invasive species. Nonetheless, some biologists argue that nonnative honeysuckle actually has important beneficial effects on North American ecology.
First, these scientists have found that honeysuckle supports the spread of native plant species by attracting animals that disperse plant seeds. Honeysuckle plants produce a high number of berries that are an appealing food for small animals. The honeysuckle's numerous berries attract animals, and these animals also eat the berries of other nearby plants. When animals eat berries, they expose the seeds that the berries contain, and because they often carry berries elsewhere, animals spread the seeds of both the honeysuckle and the native plant species to other places.
Second, honeysuckle can play a positive role in wildfire containment in woodlands and grasslands. The spread of naturally occurring wildfires is normally fueled by dry grasses, which burn easily. Honeysuckle creates dense shade, which prevents grass from growing beneath it and keeps the soil under the honeysuckle moist. With little to no dry grass in an area, naturally occurring fires have very little fuel to keep them going once they start. By limiting the spread of wildfires, honeysuckle helps reduce fire damage to natural landscapes as well as human dwellings.
Third, honeysuckle supports some bird populations. Honeysuckle berries are an attractive and plentiful food source at the time of year when some bird populations are about to migrate. These birds often consume honeysuckle berries as they prepare for their long and demanding journey to warmer climates.

[LISTENING]
The reading overstates the ecological benefits of nonnative honeysuckle.
First, it is true that when animals spread the seeds of the honeysuckle, they also spread the seeds of native plants. But that doesn’t mean that the native plants would actually grow from those seeds successfully. You see, animals typically carry the seeds of honeysuckle and native plants together, and then they drop all of those seeds together in one place. As they grow together in that place, the honeysuckle eventually eliminates its competition, the native plants. The honeysuckle quickly become so dense that they can block the native plant’s access to sunlight, and without access to sunlight, the native plants will die.
Second, it is true that honeysuckle helps keep fires from spreading. But let’s take a closer look at what actually happens when an occasional, naturally occurring wildfire spreads. Fire causes chemical and physical changes in the soil that release important nutrients. For example, the chemical element nitrogen becomes more available in the soil and easier for plants to absorb following the fire. Nitrogen-rich soil is productive and supports a diverse variety of plants. But in areas where honeysuckle is so dominant that there are almost no grass, fires almost never spread, and the levels of nutrients, such as nitrogen, can become poor.
Third, there is a drawback to birds eating honeysuckle berries before migrating. You see, when birds migrate, they fly for a long period of time, and to do this successfully, they need lots of stored energy. Migrating birds store energy in the form of excess fat. Eating certain kinds of foods helps them do this: foods like the berry from the native plant called the dogwood. Those berries have lots of fatty oil, but honeysuckle berries do not have much fat or oil. So, birds that rely on honeysuckle berries may not be able to store enough energy to help them migrate.