[READING]
The Great Lakes are five interconnected bodies of freshwater on the United States-Canada border. Some scientists estimate that if wind turbines (tall towers with rotating blades propelled by the wind) were built in the Great Lakes, the turbines could provide electricity for up to 210 million homes. That and the additional economic and ecological benefits that have been identified have convinced many people to support plans to build turbines in the lakes, several kilometers off their shores. 
First, bringing wind turbines to the Great Lakes would have great benefit for the local economy. Installing just a few hundred turbines in the lakes would create tens of thousands of jobs in the area. One Canadian province bordering a lake estimates that this would add several billion dollars to its economy over a ten-year period.
Second, the Great Lakes, precisely because they are freshwater lakes, have an advantage over other places where wind turbines are used. Many wind turbines have been built in the ocean near the coastline of some countries, and maintenance costs for these turbines have proved to be high; the salt in ocean water has a corrosive effect on the turbines. In freshwater lakes such as the Great Lakes, corrosion to the turbines is not an issue, so maintenance costs would be kept low.
Third, the wind turbines would help reduce water use. Currently, coal and natural gas power plants use billions of liters of water from the Great Lakes as part of the process by which they produce power. Much of this water cannot be returned to the lakes. In fact, it is estimated that if wind turbines replaced some of those coal and natural gas power plants in producing electricity, up to 9 billion liters of water could be conserved.

[LISTENING]
Other people do not support plans to put wind turbines in the Great Lakes. They believe that any benefit that might come from doing so is not worth the cost or the risk involved.
First, while the project would create jobs, local residents would experience some negative economic impact as well. Constructing wind turbines is costly. That means that the companies building the turbines would have to invest a lot of money just to get the turbines running. To recover those high initial costs, the companies would have to increase the price of electricity for the area residents, at least for several years. In fact, it's estimated that electricity bills for residents would stay higher for 15 years.
Second, it's true that the corrosive effects of salt water will not be a factor in a freshwater lake. But the problem is that fresh water freezes much more easily than salt water does. This will certainly happen in the Great Lakes where the weather can be extremely cold. Ice could cause very serious damage to the turbines. During cold weather, if enough, ice built up on the base of the turbine, it would add so much weight that the turbine would crack. The maintenance costs might be even higher than those for other types of wind turbines.
Third, about wind turbines helping water conservation efforts while reducing water use is just one aspect of water conservation. Another concern is water quality. Wind turbines, like many types of machinery, need lubricants to keep them running smoothly. Lubricants are made out of oil. If even a single turbine experience is a problem, it could send thousands of liters of lubricant oil into the lakes that would make the quality of the water too poor to drink. And millions of people in the area depend on the lakes for their drinking water supply.