[READING]
Yellow-legged mountain frogs live in the Sierra Nevada mountains in California in the western United States. They live around sunny streams and lakes at high altitudes. Over the last 40 to 50 years, populations of the yellow-legged mountain frog have been declining, and it is now considered an endangered species. Researchers have suggested several theories about what may have caused the population decline.
Nonnative Trout: Some researchers have suggested that the problem is the introduction of trout (a species of fish) into water sources in the Sierra Nevada mountains. The trout were introduced to encourage recreational fishing, but they may be causing the frog decline. Trout are predatory fish that can feed on tadpoles (young frogs). Since trout are not native to the region, yellow- legged mountain frog tadpoles have not developed any defensive behaviors that would protect them from the trout.
Pesticides: Others believe that chemical pesticides sprayed onto farm fields could be poisoning frog habitats and harming frog populations. To the west of the Sierra Nevada mountains lies California's Central Valley, a region with some of the most intensive agriculture in the United States. Pesticide use in the Central Valley is heavy, and it is possible that some amount of the pesticide contaminates the freshwater habitats of the yellow-legged frog.
Fungal Disease: In recent years, a fungal disease called chytridiomycosis has been reducing or even wiping out frog populations in many areas around the world. Chytridiomycosis typically attacks the skin; a frog's skin is essential to many of its vital functions, including breathing and water intake. The fungus that causes chytridiomycosis has been found in the Sierra Nevada mountains, and it is quite possible that it is to blame for the decline of the yellow-legged mountain frog populations there.

[LISTENING]
Actually, each theory you just read about has a serious weakness.
The problem with the first theory is that people who enjoy recreational fishing started stalking the streams and lakes in the Sierra Nevada mountains with trout over 100 years ago. As a matter of fact, it wasn't an easy thing to do at that time. The trout had to be carried into the mountains in buckets of water on horseback or on mules, but the interest in trout fishing was strong. And so, the trout were introduced into the many locations. However, the decline of the yellow-legged mountain frogs didn't start until about 40 years ago. The timing of the two events, the introduction of the trout, on one hand, and the frog decline on the other, doesn't seem to match.
The problem with the second theory is geography. Usually, in cases of pesticide contamination, you have rainwater washing pesticides off the fields and then flowing downhill into rivers or lakes nearby. But the Sierra Nevada mountains are not only quite far from the farms in the Central Valley over 100 kilometers, but they're also located higher than the fields in the valley. Since water cannot run uphill, it's not easy to see how the pesticides used in the Central Valley could get to the lakes and streams of the Sierra Nevada.
Third, not all frog species are vulnerable to Chytridiomycosis, that fungal disease you read about. The skin of some frogs contains specific chemicals that protect the frogs against the fungus that causes the infection. Studies show that the skin of a yellow-legged mountain frog does produce protective chemicals of this type. So, since the yellow-legged mountain frog seems capable of protecting itself from the fungus, it's not clear that it's the fungal disease that has brought down its population.