[READING]
The Azores are a group of islands in the Atlantic Ocean, about 1,500 kilometers west of Europe. Modern Europeans began settling the islands in the 1400s. However, some historians think that other explorers visited the Azores much earlier. There is evidence to suggest that the Phoenicians-an ancient Mediterranean people known for their ability as sailors- explored the Azores over 2,000 years ago.
Caves: First, archaeologists have found a number of caves built by people in the Azores. In ancient times, the Phoenicians made similar caves as small religious temples and tombs in the cliffs around many of their settlements. The caves that archaeologists found in the Azores appear similar to those of ancient Phoenicia. They have what appear to be stone altars (tables used for religious ceremonies) and stone bowls that could have been used to hold liquid for ceremonial purposes.
Phoenician Coins: Second, there is an eighteenth-century account of ancient coins being discovered on Corvo, one of the islands in the Azores, in 1749. This account was published in a scientific article and was accompanied by detailed drawings of the coins. The illustrations show that the coins were Phoenician. The discovery of Phoenician coins on the island of Corvo in the Azores strongly indicates that Phoenicians arrived in the Azores long before modern Europeans.
Phoenicians Traveling Long Distances: Finally, modern researchers have found evidence of Phoenician sailboats traveling long distances of up to 2,000 kilometers without stopping on land (when sailing in the Mediterranean Sea). It appears that the Phoenicians routinely traveled such great distances in the Mediterranean Sea to avoid unfriendly territories. So, it seems quite possible that the Phoenician ships would have been able to complete the journey west from Europe to the Azores 1,500 kilometers away.

[LISTENING]
Some experts aren't convinced that the Phoenicians explored the Azores long before modern Europeans. Here's why.
First, about the caves; for us to know the caves were built by Phoenicians, we would need evidence of religious artifacts, but that's not quite clear. For example, the supposed stone alters you read about might not be alters. They might just be tables without any religious purpose. And the bowls might be there for storing simple drinking water, not liquid for religious ceremonies. Caves might actually have a different explanation altogether. We know that European settlers sometimes used these caves to store food and water. It's possible that it was those early Europeans who built the caves, not the Phoenicians.
Second, the argument about the coins may be based on a misunderstanding. Sure. The article said that the coins were found on Corvo, but there are several locations called Corvo. So, was the writer referring to the island of Corvo in the Azores? Probably not. You see, Corvo was also a name of a town in mainland Portugal. In fact, it was known that the Phoenicians visited the town of Corvo in Portugal. So, finding Phoenician coins there would not have been surprising. It's possible that the writer of the article confused the two locations, and the coins were actually found in the town of Corvo in mainland Portugal. But he mistakenly thought they had come from the island of Corvo in the Azores.
Lastly, while the Phoenicians were able to sail long distances, the journey to the Azores would pose a particular challenge. The Azores are located in the Atlantic Ocean; in the Atlantic, both the ocean currents and the wind move east toward Europe. Phoenician sailboats traveling west to the Azores would have had to sail against the strong wind and against the flow of the ocean water. So, the journey going west to the Azores would probably have been impossible for Phoenician ships of that time.