[READING]
The Great Pyramid, a 4,500-year-old stone tomb built for an ancient Egyptian king, contains chambers, which were rooms in which the body of the king and ceremonial objects could be placed. In addition to these chambers, the pyramid also contains four shafts narrow tunnels that were created in the solid stone structure as it was being built (see illustration). These shafts rise from two burial chambers and lead toward the outside of the pyramid. The four shafts are too small and placed at too steep an angle for a person to pass through them. The purpose of the shafts in the Great Pyramid is not certain, but archaeologists have several theories.
One theory is that the shafts were used for ventilation to bring fresh air from outside into the pyramid. During its construction, many workers labored inside the pyramid's interior chambers, and they may have had difficulty breathing, especially because the fires they used to light their work space would have produced smoke. The shafts may have been constructed to make it easier for workers to breathe.
A second theory is that the shafts were deliberately positioned in relation to stars. Scientists studying the pyramid have found that its shafts align with the positions of certain stars in the sky. At certain times in ancient Egyptian history, stars played an important role in religion; specific stars were associated with particular gods. The shafts in the king's tomb might have been built in alignment with specific stars for religious reasons. 
A third theory is that the shafts were intended as passageways to help the king's spirit enter the afterlife. Ancient Egyptians believed that the king's spirit would leave his body and travel to the afterlife. The ancient builders may have built the shafts as openings for the king's spirit to pass through.

[LISTENING]
All current theories about the shafts and the Great Pyramid are problematic. No one really knows their purpose.
First, the ventilation theory. The pyramid has two pairs of shafts; while the shafts rising from the upper chamber reach the outer wall of the pyramid, the shafts coming from the lower chamber do not. They stop several meters before they reach the outside wall of the pyramid. So, the shafts connected to the lower chamber could not have brought in air from outside. Since all four shafts are otherwise very similar, it seems they were all constructed for the same purpose. But since only two of the shafts could have been used to bring in fresh air, ventilation probably was not the purpose.
Second, star alignment. In ancient Egyptian religion, specific stars were associated with specific gods only in the later years. But the Great Pyramid was built in the earlier years of the ancient period. Records from the earlier years of the ancient period do not mention strong associations between particular gods and particular stars. So, if specific stars did not represent specific gods at the time the pyramid was built, there wasn't any religious reason for aligning the shafts with those stars.
Third, ancient Egyptians did believe that the king's spirit traveled to the afterlife, but they did not necessarily believe that the spirit needed actual shafts to travel through. You see, ancient Egyptians built many other pyramids for their dead kings. In those pyramids, they usually built only symbolic passageways for the spirits of the kings. Passageways were basically just false doors that were built onto the surface of walls, but did not actually open. That suggests that Egyptians thought that spirits could easily travel through walls and did not need real openings or shafts. So, the shafts in the Great Pyramid were probably not made for the king's spirit.