[READING]
The monumental pyramids of ancient Egypt are built of large limestone blocks. Archaeologists have long wondered how the Egyptians were able to transport the large, heavy blocks and lift them to their positions on the pyramids. Some researchers have proposed an ingenious hypothesis: the Egyptians actually created the building locks out of limestone-based concrete rather than carving them out of natural rock. The concrete was a paste made by dissolving natural limestone in water. The concrete paste was then poured into forms where it hardened into solid blocks. Since the concrete blocks could be created on the construction site, transportation and lifting were not a problem. Several findings support this hypothesis.
First, it appears that Egyptians may have used concrete or similar material for other purposes; for example, in making containers such as stone vases. A number of ancient Egyptian stone vases are hollow but have very long and narrow necks. These vases were probably not carved out of solid stone; hollowing them out through the narrow necks would have been impossible. A more likely explanation is that they were created by pouring a concrete like substance into vase shaped forms and letting it harden.
Second, when researchers examined samples from some pyramid building blocks under the microscope, they noticed tiny bubbles in their micro- structure. Such bubbles are almost never present in natural stone, but they are characteristic of concrete that has dried.
Third, the chambers inside the pyramids retain much higher levels of moisture than would be expected in the very dry Egyptian climate. This excess moisture can be explained as a remnant of the water that escaped from the concrete blocks as they dried. The concrete would have been made from a mixture of water and stone; some of the water evaporated as the concrete hardened.

[LISTENING]
There is no real evidence for the hypothesis that the Egyptians built their pyramids out of concrete blocks. All the findings mentioned in the passage can be explained in other ways.
First, the long-necked vases are probably not made from a concrete-like material. The passage overlooked a common technique used by Egyptian artisans to make vases with unusual shapes. The artisan started with 2 pieces of stone, carved them out of separate halves, and then glued the halves together to make a complete phase. So, concrete or some similar material was not used for the vases, and it's doubtful it was used for anything else.
Secondly, those samples that have bubbles in the micro-structure probably are actual concrete. But this concrete was not necessarily made by the original Egyptian builders. It could have been made by people who made later repairs to the pyramids. The pyramids have been standing around for over 4,000 years. Some civilizations that came after the Egyptians made some repairs on the pyramids. Consider, for example, the ancient Romans who came to Egypt many hundreds of years after the pyramids were built. We know that the ancient Romans definitely used concrete in construction, so the concrete could have easily come from Roman or later repairs.
Finally, the moisture inside the pyramids has a much simpler explanation than the remains of water released by drying concrete. Thousands of people have moved in and out of the pyramids, from explorers throughout history to tourists in modern times. Human breath contains a lot of moisture. Since the chambers inside the pyramids are small and are separated from the dry Egyptian air outside by very thick walls of stone, the moisture left behind by so many visitors has stayed trapped inside the pyramid chambers.