[READING]
Water thyme (pronounced “time”) is a freshwater plant that grows on long stems with many leaves. Native to the waters of Europe and Asia, water thyme has been introduced to lakes and ponds in North America by humans, where it grows rapidly and threatens native aquatic plants. Scientists are exploring several methods of controlling populations of invasive water thyme.
Water Drawdowns: One way to control invasive plants is water drawdown, or lowering the water level in a body of water by pumping it out, usually over the winter. When the water level is lower, certain parts of the lake or pond become exposed to the air, which prevents them from producing nutrients. The aquatic plants in these exposed areas die off, and, when the water is returned in the spring, the areas are clear of plants. Scientists believe that drawdowns might eliminate water thyme from parts of lakes and ponds.
Using Machines: Another option is to physically remove water thyme from the infested areas with the help of machines. These plants grow thickly and in large groups, but can be pulled out from the water fairly easily. Specialized machinery designed to remove water weeds, pulled by boats, can even search the bottom of lakes or ponds for water thyme roots and pull them out. This is considered a highly reliable means of removing water thyme from a particular area.
Bio-Control: It may also be possible to use other organisms—such as the grass carp—to control water thyme. Grass carp are freshwater fish that can eat large volumes of aquatic plants, including water thyme. In fact, carp can consume 3 times their weight in a given day. By introducing grass carp into the infested lakes and ponds, scientists might be able to control the population of water thyme. Constant feeding by the carp will reduce the area covered by the plant.

[LISTENING]
Each of the methods for controlling water thyme is problematic. Here's why.
First, as you read, water drawdowns generally kill aquatic plants by exposing them to the air, which drives out their stems and leaves. Water thyme plants, however, have important structures called tubers. Tubers are flashy, potato-like structures that grow near the roots. These tubers can store water inside them for a long time and survive long after the plant's leaves and stems have dried out. In addition to storing water, tubers also contain enough nutrients to produce new shoots and buds that start the plant's regrowth when water is returned to the pond or lake.
Second, while using machines can temporarily remove water thyme, it can actually spread the plant to new areas. You see, machines used to remove water thyme end up breaking some of these plants into very small pieces. Some of these pieces are hard to spot, and attach themselves to the removal machinery. When the machines are later used in some other lake or pond, the water thyme fragments attached to them get introduced to other waterways. What is worse is that even very small fragments of water thyme can grow into whole plants very quickly, which means that the infestation could spread even faster.
Third, grass carp do help to control water thyme, but they also create another problem: Lots of algae; algae are simple organisms that grow and spread quickly under the right conditions, putting other aquatic species in serious danger. Carp create conditions that lead to the rapid growth of algae. How so? Well, as you read, carp eat a great deal. As a result, they also put lots of waste back into the water. This waste creates good conditions for algae to grow. So, while the carp can help get rid of water thyme plants, they end up creating an algae problem that harms the environment.