[READING]
The narwhal is a medium-sized whale that lives year-round in the Arctic. The species has attracted a lot of scientific attention over the years because it has a perfectly straight, 2- to 3-meter-long tusk projecting from its head. Scientists have long wondered what the purpose of the tusk might be. Three possible functions of the tusk have been proposed.
First, the narwhal dwells and hunts within the Arctic Circle, where the sea is often covered with thick pack ice. Like other whales, the narwhal needs air to breathe and cannot stay underwater indefinitely. Eyewitnesses have reported seeing narwhals use their tusks to pierce through the ice sheet from below. The ability to break the ice in this way would give a narwhal access to air whenever it needed to take a breath. That would make it possible for narwhals to freely hunt in waters that are covered with ice.
Second, the tusk could serve as a weapon for fighting with other male narwhals as they compete for territory. Just as rams and male deer charge at one another with their horns or antlers, male narwhals, it seems, may charge or joust with one another. Some observers have claimed to have seen aggressive clashing of tusks between male narwhals.
Third, the surface of the tusk contains many millions of microscopic holes connected to nerves. This configuration suggests that the tusk serves as a sensor that allows the narwhal to detect ocean properties, for example water pressure, temperature, salinity of the water, and even barometric pressure above the water’s surface. The ability to sense such properties would be an important adaptation aiding in the narwhal’s survival.

[LISTENING]
The tusk of the narwhal is indeed a mystery. Its purpose is not easy to explain. I can tell you that each of the theories presented in the reading has a weakness.
First, if you apply pressure to a narwhal tusk, it will actually bend about 30 centimeters in any direction. This flexibility means that it cannot really be used for breaking through an ice sheet that is more than a few centimeters thick. The reason narwhals are able to spend long periods of time in the sea that's covered with ice is that the ice sheets typically break up by themselves in certain places. Supposed observations of narwhals piercing through an ice sheet may have simply been narwhals seen sticking their heads out of the water in places where the ice sheet had already begun to break up.
What the second theory in the reading passage probably refers to is a behavior observed in male narwhals called tusking. Now, the reason that some observers may have mistaken tusking for an aggressive behavior is that they observed it from a distance. People who have observed the narwhal tusking up close give very different accounts. Instead of fighting, tusking narwhals seem to gently rub their tusks. That's more consistent with some sort of communication role rather than defending territory.
Third, as to the usefulness of the tusk for detecting properties of the ocean important for survival, well, consider this: Almost all male narwhals have tusks, but very few female narwhals have the structure. Furthermore, female narwhals live longer than male narwhals. If the function of the tusk was to give the animal information needed for survival, why wouldn't females have tusks as well? And since they don't, how do we explain their greater longevity?