[READING]
Since the common carp was introduced to Australian waters about two centuries ago, it has become an invasive species in many Australian waterways, where it competes with native fish and harms local ecosystems. Scientists are currently investigating several methods for reducing carp numbers in order to improve ecosystems in Australia.
First, it is possible to reduce carp populations through commercial fishing. In the United States, for instance, the Asian carp has been a harmful invasive species for many years, but its numbers have been reduced in several areas by increased commercial fishing. This occurred because government programs encouraged commercial fisheries to catch and sell more carp and because carp was promoted as a fish that is especially good to eat. Commercial carp fishing could similarly be encouraged in Australia to reduce carp populations.
Another option is to poison the carp. Bait food injected with a powerful toxin can be thrown into lakes and ponds; carp that eat these baits will die. To keep native fish species from being killed by these poisoned baits, they can be made attractive only to carp. Unlike many fish, carp can eat plants and are attracted to certain kinds of plant material, like corn. So, if the poisoned baits are made of corn or resemble corn, they will only get eaten by the carp, and only the carp will get killed by the poison.
A final option involves genetic engineering. In the laboratory, scientists have found a way to modify or change individual carps’ genes so that they only produce male offspring without producing any females. Scientists hope to introduce such genetically-modified carp into the infested waterways, where they will breed with the carp that are already present. As these modified carp spread their genes throughout the carp population, carp offspring will increasingly be male, reducing the number of carp eggs that get produced.

[LISTENING]
It's unlikely that any of the strategies you've read about will provide a good solution to the carp problem in Australia.
First, it's unlikely that commercial fishing of carp in Australia can be increased significantly as it was in the United States. This is because, unlike the carp in the United States, the common carp in Australia isn't really caught for human consumption. The thing is, the common carp in Australia doesn't even taste very good. In fact, the common carp is really only caught commercially in Australia to make food for farm animals because it's rich in protein. But the demand for carp to make food for farm animals is already being met in Australia. It's unlikely to increase significantly anytime soon.
Second, despite precautions that can be taken, this bait program probably will end up killing native fish species. The problem is, carp have an extremely good sense of smell. They can detect toxins and will often refuse to eat bait that's been poisoned. This means that poisoned baits placed in the water will stay in the water, and eventually, their toxins may leak into the water and poison native fish. So, using poisoned bait probably will hurt the native fish we want to protect, but won't significantly reduce carp numbers.
Finally, the problem with introducing genetically-modified carp to stop carp reproduction is that healthy carp will still manage to get into lakes and streams. You see, in Australia, some colorful varieties of carp are very popular as pets. Many Australians keep these pet carp in artificial ponds in their backyards. Unfortunately, flooding from heavy rains sometimes allows these pet carp to escape from backyard ponds into nearby waterways. Once in the wild, these pet carp breed with invasive carp, introducing healthy genes back into the population. As a result, female carp continue to be produced and keep carp populations high by laying lots of eggs.