[READING]
Some historians claim that the first people to sail around Africa were Phoenicians. Phoenicia was an ancient nation well-known for its seafaring achievements. The historians base their theory on some ancient sources indicating that a group of Phoenician sailors were hired to sail around Africa by an Egyptian king, Necho II, who reigned from 610 to 595 B.C.E. However, many other historians find that theory unconvincing and point to a number of reasons why.
First, it is highly unlikely that the Phoenician sailors possessed the necessary technology to sail around Africa as early as 600 B.C.E. The ships they built were small and held together only with crude, wooden pegs. Also, the ships had only one simple, square-shaped sail. While such technology might have been suitable to sail on the Mediterranean Sea near Phoenicia, it would not have been suitable for the long voyage in the open ocean around Africa.
Second, it also goes against what we know about Egyptian rulers of the time to suggest that Necho II ordered the expedition and hired the Phoenicians. Ancient Egyptians are understood to have been generally uninterested in exploring the world beyond their kingdom and the lands immediately surrounding it. Necho II would have had no reason to hire Phoenician sailors.
Third, it is possible that the account of a journey around Africa recorded in the ancient sources was just a story invented by sailors that later spread. It was not uncommon for people of the ancient world to make up stories and pass them off as truths, particularly when it had to do with the ocean. Stories of sea monsters and magical islands were also popular at the time, so in the same way, a story about a voyage around Africa could have been invented as well.

[LISTENING]
There's some additional information that makes the claim that the Phoenicians sailed around Africa much more convincing than the reading suggested.
First, it's true that Phoenicians used rather simple sailing technology, but that doesn't mean the voyage was impossible. In fact, recently, in the 20th century, some scientists and shipbuilders built a copy of an old Phoenician ship to see how capable it was of sailing long distances. They used exactly the same materials and techniques that were available to Phoenicians 600 years B.C.E. And guess what? These scientists successfully sailed this copy of an old ship around Africa. So, Phoenician ships may have been good enough for a voice like this.
Second, it's true that the ancient Egyptians were generally not interested in exploring areas outside Egypt. But Necho II was a rather different kind of king in this respect. For example, he was very interested in water transportation and started major projects to connect Egyptian rivers and seas through canals. Necho probably wanted to explore the possibilities of water transportation in general, for trading purposes. He could have hired the Phoenician sailors to sail around Africa to help him discover new trading partners.
Finally, the Phoenician sailors reported some facts that make it unlikely that they invented the story. They reported that when they sailed far, far to the south, they noticed that at midday at 12 o'clock, the sun was in the northern part of the sky instead of the southern. Well, that's exactly what happens in the southern hemisphere. The sun appears in the northern part of the sky at midday, in contrast to what happens in the northern hemisphere, where the sailors were from. This information about the position of the sun would be hard to invent. The most likely explanation for it is that the Phoenicians had actually gone to the southern hemisphere and observed the sun themselves.