[READING]
A vine (climbing plant) from Asia called kudzu was introduced into the southeastern United States over a century ago as a means of decorating gardens and preventing soil erosion. Kudzu has quickly spread across the southeastern United States and has become an invasive species that kills off native plants and trees by climbing over them and blocking them from sunlight. Three methods of controlling the spread of kudzu have been proposed. 
Crown Removal: One way of getting rid of the invasive kudzu is by removing its root crown. The root crown is the part of the kudzu where its stem and roots meet. New kudzu vines grow from the root crown and not from the roots. Therefore, cutting just below the root crown and removing the crown from the soil will prevent new kudzu vines from growing and may help eradicate kudzu. 
Grazing Goats: Another control technique involves transporting goats to areas overgrown with kudzu and allowing the goats to graze (feed) on the kudzu to remove it. Goats are relatively small but eat a great deal, so a large herd of goats can be driven in trucks to areas of kudzu infestation, where the goats can graze until the kudzu has been cleared. Importantly, grazing by livestock weakens kudzu and prevents it from regrowing, so this control method has the potential to address the problem. 
Fungi: A third control method consists of using naturally occurring microorganisms, such as fungi, that feed on kudzu. Some scientists have recently conducted a series of experiments with fungi. When a kudzu plant was infected with fungi in the morning, signs of infection were already visible by the afternoon. Specifically, the plant's leaves had become weak and lifeless. The use of fungi may thus help eliminate kudzu.

[LISTENING]
Unfortunately, none of the control methods you just read about are very effective.
Okay. The reading says that one way to stop kudzu from growing is to remove the root crown. Well, that's easier said than done. You see, although the root crown begins just 2 or 3 centimeters below the surface, it also grows deep into the soil. It's very hard to find the bottom of the crown, dig below it, and cut it from the system of roots beneath it. If any part of the crown remains in the soil after an attempted removal, kudzu will grow back quickly from this remaining part. And given the large size of the root crown and how deep in the soil it goes, the chances of some part of the crown remaining in the soil are high.
Second, goats will fully remove kudzu only if you let them graze in the same area continuously for a long period of time. Only continuous grazing weakens kudzu to the point of preventing its regrowth. So, loading goats on trucks and moving them from place to place, as the reading suggests, will not work. If the goats stay in each area for just a short time, they will remove some kudzu. But as soon as they're moved to another area, kudzu will grow back. Only long-term, continuous grazing works. But it's impossible to bring goats for long-term grazing to all the areas infested by kudzu.
Finally, the use of fungi is also problematic. Kudzu infestations are so widespread that fungi would have to be produced in great quantities to control these infestations. However, scientists currently don't have the resources to produce mass quantities of fungi in laboratories. And fungi have another drawback. If a person touches a kudzu plant infected with fungi, the fungi may cause skin irritation. Therefore, this control method may remain at the experimental stage for a while.