[READING]
Several species of cypress trees, which can grow in wetlands and shallow water, produce unusual structures called knees. Unlike roots, cypress knees grow above the ground. They are strange formations that extend upward from the trees' roots into the air. While the function of roots is well-established, the function of knees is still unclear, but scientists have several hypotheses.  
Oxygen absorption: First, knees may help the trees' roots absorb or take in oxygen. Plant roots require oxygen for important cellular functions, and the soil in the watery habitats where cypress trees often grow is low in oxygen. Roots of plants growing in low-oxygen soil must often obtain oxygen from another source. For example, mangrove trees, which also grow in soil that is underwater, are known for having above-ground roots that absorb oxygen. Like the roots of mangroves, cypress knees may take in oxygen from the air and deliver it to the deeper roots.  
Additional stability: Second, knees may help cypress trees stand firmly in the soil, making them better able to remain securely in place when exposed to high winds or strong water currents. The fact that the cypress has knees in addition to a network of roots may provide additional stability, allowing the tree to anchor itself well in the soil. Cypress trees may need this additional support due to the softness of the wet soil in which they grow. 
Methane release: Finally, knees grow on trees in areas where methane gas exists in the soil. The knees are in direct contact with the soil infused with methane, which is of no use to trees. Therefore, the function of knees may be to release methane gas from the trees' roots into the air. The fact that measurable amounts of methane have been detected in the air above the knees supports this idea.  

[LISTENING]
You read about three possible functions of cypress knees, but all of these hypotheses problematic.
First, it seems reasonable that a structure sticking up into the air would help absorb or take in oxygen. But researchers tested this hypothesis. They placed cypress knees in tightly closed containers with oxygen and measured how the oxygen levels inside the container has changed over time. Surprisingly, they found that the oxygen levels did not change much. This indicated that the knees absorbed very little oxygen. If the function of cypress knees were to take in oxygen, you would expect the knees to absorb significant amounts of the oxygen in the containers that did not happen.
Second, the idea that needs help cypress trees stay firmly rooted in the soil is problematic, too. You see, many cypress knees are attached to the cypress's horizontal roots. Those horizontal roots do not extend down deep into the soil. And the knee does not provide any additional stability in that situation. Knees can help with stability only if they're attached to vertical roots that reach deep into the soil. But many knees are not connected to vertical roots at all. Since the knees are so frequently attached to horizontal roots, rather than the vertical ones, it's doubtful that physical support is their main purpose.
Finally, about methane release; this idea is unconvincing for a couple of reasons. You see, although methane is not useful to trees, it really does them no harm. It seems unlikely that the trees would develop special features like the knees, just to get rid of something that has no negative effect. Besides, lots of microorganisms live on cypress knees; and it's completely possible that these tiny organisms produce the methane detected around the knees, not the knees themselves.