[READING]
Chaco Canyon, located in a desert region in the southwestern United States, is an impressive cultural and historic site. The canyon was inhabited by Chacoan people between the ninth and twelfth centuries. Because of the region's dry climate, many historians believe that the Chacoans could not grow enough crops to be self-sufficient and had to import food from other locations. There are several reasons to think that the Chacoans could not fully support themselves with agriculture. 
Amount of Rainfall: Historical weather patterns--information about temperatures or rainfall in the past--can be reconstructed using various evidence, for example, the analysis of growth rings of old trees. Based on this evidence, scientists found that the annual rainfall in the canyon was typically below the minimum amount necessary to grow corn (maize) and beans, the Chacoans' main crops. Therefore, the water in Chaco Canyon was too limited to grow enough crops. 
Salty Soil: The soil in Chaco Canyon was largely unsuitable for agriculture. Researchers tested samples of soil from the canyon and found that the samples contained very high levels of salts. In fact, some of the soil samples were saltier than seawater. Given that crops do not grow well in highly salty soil, it is unlikely that the Chacoans could have supported themselves with agriculture. 
Population Size: The Chacoan population was too large to survive only on the food produced in Chaco Canyon. The canyon has ruins of many large, multi-roomed buildings. From the size of those buildings, historians estimate that the Chacoan population was around a few thousand residents. Even if all available land in the canyon had been used to grow crops, the quantity of food produced could not have fed a population of this size. The Chacoans thus had to import food from other locations.

[LISTENING]
Actually, some historians now think that the Chacoans could produce enough food to support themselves.
First, it's true that Chaco canyon received very little rain, but the Chacoans developed strategies to conserve the limited amount of rainwater and make the most of it. The canyon has traces of an ancient irrigation system. The irrigation system consisted of a water reservoir and canals. The Chacoans built the reservoir to collect and store rain when it fell, and the canals to distribute water from the reservoir to their fields; by carefully collecting and distributing their limited rainfall, the Chacoans could have had enough water to grow their crops.
Second, about the salty soil. Well, there's an issue with the soil tests you read about. Those tests looked only at a few samples taken from the surface of Chaco canyon, but you have to test the soil below the surface, too, to fully understand whether the soil is good for growing crops or not. When other experts tested soil from deeper in the earth, they found much lower levels of salts. In addition, many of the salts found in the new samples were not harmful, quite the opposite. Those types of salts contain important minerals that make soil more fertile. So, the Chaco soil is much less salty than people thought. And the salts that are present are good for growing crops.
And last, about the population size; well, it seems that the actual Chacoan population was considerably smaller than a few thousand people, maybe only a few hundred. But how do we then explain the large multi-roomed buildings? Well, Chaco canyon was an important religious place. Many people traveled there for religious ceremonies. These visitors needed to stay somewhere, and that explains why the large houses were built. And the visitors usually brought their own food. Given that the actual number of the Chacoans was just in the hundreds, agriculture in the canyon could have produced enough food for them.