[READING]
In the United States, most people buy fruits and vegetables--often called produce-- grown on large industrial farms. Many of these farms are located in distant places across the world, and their produce has to be imported. However, some experts argue that consumers should avoid buying imported produce and instead buy from small, local farms for several reasons. 
First, local produce is better for the environment. Imported foods must be transported over long distances to reach consumers. Any means of transportation that is used requires burning fuel, which releases carbon dioxide gas into the atmosphere, polluting the environment and contributing to global warming. By buying locally grown foods, consumers can reduce the amount of produce that travels long distances. This in turn would decrease the amount of fuel burned and benefit the environment.   
Second, locally grown foods have more nutritional value than imported foods do. Produce has more vitamins and minerals if it is picked when ripe. However, imported produce is typically picked before it is ripe so that it does not spoil during the lengthy transportation process. Locally grown fruits and vegetables, by contrast, can be picked when they are fully ripe and then promptly delivered to nearby consumers. 
Third, local farms are safer than industrial farms from certain natural threats that can affect the food supply. Soil naturally contains many infectious organisms, each attracted to specific plants. When there is plant diversity, the organisms remain in safe levels in the soil. However, when a single plant species is repeatedly grown in the same place, organisms that cause diseases in that species can build up in the soil and eventually destroy all the plants on a farm. Industrial farms often specialize in a single plant species and are vulnerable to this problem. Local farms, on the other hand, typically grow a wider variety of plants and thus are more likely to avoid the spread of plant-specific diseases.  

[LISTENING]
Actually, there are some good reasons to continue importing produce.
First, it's true that very little pollution is created transporting local produce. But local farms could still create more pollution overall, because they'd likely have to burn more fuel just to grow their foods. You see, to grow the variety of foods consumers want, local farmers would have to cultivate many crops that typically grow in other regions with different climates. And when crops from warmer climates are grown in colder climates, they must be grown in large, artificially heated buildings; heating these buildings burns lots of fuel, producing lots of pollution.
Second, it's true that local produce is usually picked when it's ripe and most nutritious. But that doesn't mean it's going to be sold and eaten when it's most nutritious. If small local farms don't sell their produce right away, they usually refrigerate the produce. And when produce is refrigerated, it loses some of its nutrients. Now, produce from large industrial farms can also be picked when ripe. As long as it's quickly frozen or canned; freezing or canning preserves the nutritional value of some produce better and longer than refrigeration. And industrial farms are more likely to have the large, expensive processing facilities needed to freeze or can their produce. Small, local farms usually can't afford this kind of processing.
Finally, regarding natural threats to the food supply, industrial farms can actually apply treatments to the soil to prevent the buildup of harmful organisms. But relying mainly on local farms puts the food supply at risk from something that can't be prevented: Severe weather. Any local area will be affected by bad weather such as storms or droughts, periodically. And this is precisely why it's important to have access to foods from various places. Severe weather, of course, will not occur in all regions at once. So, importing produce grown elsewhere is often the best solution when local produce is destroyed by bad weather.