[READING]
The term “Carolina bays” is applied to the thousands of shallow, circular or oval, land depressions found in the eastern United States. Their name stems from the fact that bay trees are frequently found growing in them. Scientists have long wondered how the bays were formed. Some researchers today argue that a massive meteorite must have exploded in the atmosphere, and that the bays were formed when the meteorite fragments hit the ground. Some of the features of these depressions support the meteorite impact theory.
First, a meteorite explosion can account for the fact that the depressions are asymmetrical: the rim of white sand on one (southeastern) side of the bay is always higher than the rim on the opposite (northwestern) side. It is well known that meteorite explosions can create craters in which materials have been pushed more to one side than the opposite one, depending on the angle at which the fragments hit the ground.
Second, a meteorite explosion can explain why the sand found near and along the rims of the bays differs from most sand found in the eastern United States. Most sand is thinly coated with iron. The white sands surrounding the depressions have no iron coating; somehow, the original iron coating of this sand was removed. Supporters of the impact theory point out that meteorite impacts create intense heat and speculate that this heat burned the iron out of the sand.
Third, buckyballs have been found in some Carolina bays. A buckyball is a distinctive form of carbon that is associated with impacts. Carbon achieves the buckyball state when it is put under extremely high pressure. The force of a meteorite explosion is sufficient for buckyballs to form.

[LISTENING]
The idea that a meteorite impact created Carolina bays is certainly an interesting one. But on closer inspection, the arguments you just read are not very convincing.
First, the sand being higher on one side of the depression than the other; is an impact the only thing that could possibly explain this? Well, no. If water moved over the region in a steady direction over a period of time, you'd see the same pattern. And as it turns out, we know that the areas containing the depressions were once underwater. So, it's quite possible that steady, deep-sea currents gradually dug the depressions and deposited sand in the direction of the current. This would explain why the rims of the depressions are all higher to the southeast. The deep currents, apparently, were moving in that direction.
Okay, what about the sand? The problem with the theory presented in the reading is that the amount of heat needed to burn the iron coating off sand grains is so high that it would have melted the sand into glass. In other words, if temperatures got that high, we would find evidence of glass in the bays. But we have not found any evidence of glass, which means that some cause, other than heat, removed the iron coating; maybe it was some chemical process that did this.
Third, the buckyballs evidence; if the buckyballs had been created by a meteorite impact, you would expect them to be present in each of the Carolina bays, but that's not the case. They've been found in only a few bays. The rest of the bays don't have them, and buckyballs can be formed by other causes. Lightning, for instance, can create them. So, it seems more likely that lightning created the Bucky balls in the few bays that have them.