[READING]
Many reptile species around the world have become endangered through loss of habitat caused by development and other human activities. One of the methods conservation biologists use to save endangered reptile populations is translocation. Translocation involves capturing animals in areas where their existence is threatened and moving them to new areas with a suitable habitat. Some critics point out, however, that translocation of reptiles has too often been unsuccessful, and they conclude that the method simply does not work for several reasons.
First, translocation programs sometimes involve not only capturing wild reptiles but also breeding reptiles in captivity before introducing them into a new area. Critics of translocation suggest that reptiles growing up in captivity do not have a chance to develop important behaviors that would allow them to survive in the wild. For example, many animals raised in captivity are not able to recognize and avoid predators.
Second, even animals that are introduced into a new area after being captured in the wild often will not stay settled in the new area. Some species of reptiles, for example, have a so-called homing behavior, which is a strong behavioral drive to return to the place where they were born and grew up. After being released in a new area, animals with a strong homing drive try to migrate back to their original habitat and often are killed during the migration.
Third, no matter where the reptiles were born, releasing them on their own directly into an unfamiliar environment-also known as a "hard release"-produces a tremendous amount of stress. The result is that the reptiles are often disoriented and unable to adapt quickly to their new surroundings; for example, they are often unable to locate food sources in sufficient quantity to survive.  

[LISTENING]
A couple of researchers have recently analyzed reptile translocation and concluded that it can be a very efficient method. The problems pointed out by critics are not serious or can be overcome.
First, many behavioral patterns of reptiles are inborn, genetically determined, rather than acquired through learning. There's an interesting experiment that illustrates this. This experiment has measured how certain lizards raised in captivity react to another animal approaching them. The experiment showed that lizards raised in captivity react the same way as lizards raised in the wild. When the other animal comes too close, the lizards quickly run away. That's a type of inborn reaction that will protect even translocated lizards raised in captivity against approaching predators.
Second, homing behavior can be minimized. It is known that homing behavior develops gradually and is strongest in adult animals that have become very accustomed to their original environment. But in young animals, homing behavior is a much weaker tendency. It follows that the best strategy is to relocate really young animals that have not developed strong homing behavior yet. This way, we'll increase the chance that the animals will stay in the area to which they've been introduced.
Third, certain methods can make it easier for the animals to adapt themselves to the unknown environment. For example, rather than do what the reading described as a hard release, we could practice the so-called soft release. In a soft release, we bring the animals into a new environment, but leave them in a protected enclosure, and supply them with food for some time, to give them a chance to gradually get used to the environment and learn how to survive in it.