[READING]
Scientists are planning to send the first human mission to Mars in the near future. An important question facing the mission is whether to land the spacecraft near one of Mars's poles or near its equator. Like Earth, Mars has very different climates at its poles and equator. Scientists believe that landing near the equator rather than near a pole will help the Mars mission overcome three major challenges. 
Temperatures: Mars is much colder than Earth, with average temperatures below freezing. At the poles of Mars, temperatures are especially cold. In the extremely cold temperatures at the poles, equipment runs the risk of breaking down and malfunctioning, making a mission there risky. At the equator, however, temperatures are higher overall and less likely to damage equipment. This will reduce some of the challenges involved in dealing with the Martian climate. 
Fueling Rocket Launches: Astronauts will need to launch a rocket to return to Earth from Mars. Such launches require large amounts of fuel, which is heavy and, therefore, difficult to bring to Mars. But rocket launches will require less fuel near the equator. This is because Mars, like Earth, is rotating. It rotates fastest near the equator, and a rocket can use Mars's rotation to gain extra energy when lifting off. By taking advantage of this extra energy, astronauts will not need to use as much rocket fuel for their return launch. 
Sunlight: Landing near the equator will provide astronauts with adequate sunlight each day. During the Martian winter, the polar regions of Mars receive little sunlight for several months. During these dark periods, solar power is unavailable for equipment, and astronauts would need artificial lights to see Mars's surface. But near the equator, the Sun rises and sets each day during the Martian year. By landing the spacecraft near the equator, astronauts will be able to use solar-powered equipment and see the Martian environment more easily.

[LISTENING]
Not all scientists agree that the first human mission to Mars should land near the equator. Instead, some scientists argue that landing near one of the poles of Mars would be better.
First, cold temperatures on Mars present a serious challenge. But the main problem is actually extreme changes in temperature. You see, near the equator, temperatures rise during the day, then fall again at night. As temperatures rise, equipment expands; at night, equipment shrinks. This can cause cracks or ruptures. Such extreme temperature changes would damage even specially-designed equipment. But at the poles, temperatures remain more stable. Equipment can be designed to withstand such cold temperatures. And by landing near a pole, the mission can avoid extreme temperature changes that might damage equipment.
Second, a launch from the equator would use less fuel. But the real issue is that astronauts on Mars have to make fuel for their departure. It's impossible to bring along enough fuel from earth, because it's extremely heavy. Astronauts will have to manufacture rocket fuel on Mars locally using water. Near the equator, astronauts would find very little water, so they could not make much fuel there. But near the poles, they would find plenty of water in the form of ice right on the surface.
Third, the poles are sometimes dark, but on the other hand, there is constant sunlight for 6 months each year, plenty of time to complete a mission. Furthermore, the polls offer a special advantage. You see, on Mars, sunlight actually creates problems for astronauts, because it includes harmful radiation. But unlike the equator, the poles are covered in ice, and ice is highly effective at blocking out radiation. So, at the poles, astronauts can build shelters with thick walls made of ice. These ice walls will protect the astronauts from harmful solar radiation during their mission.