[READING]
In December 1872, sailors on a passing ship discovered the Mary Celeste, an American cargo ship, floating in the Atlantic Ocean east of the Azores. There were no people on board the Mary Celeste; its captain and the crew of nine people were all gone. Its lifeboat (a small boat that ships carry for emergency purposes) was missing. Several theories have been proposed to explain what happened to the ten people who had been aboard the Mary Celeste.
One theory is that the crew of the Mary Celeste fell victim to pirates. Pirates in the area were known to attack commercial ships and capture sailors; then, the pirates demanded money from the company that had employed the sailors for sailors' release. The theory is that pirates attacked the Mary Celeste and took everyone on board captive.
A second theory is based on the fact that the Mary Celeste was transporting flammable liquid stored in barrels. Some of the barrels were found empty when the Mary Celeste was recovered, suggesting they might have leaked during the voyage. The flammable liquid leaking from the barrels may have created a danger of explosion and caused the sailors to escape to the lifeboat to wait until the danger passed. As they were waiting, the lifeboat may have had an accident, and the crew was lost.
The third theory asserts that the captain and crew may have determined that the ship was in danger of sinking. This is supported by the discovery that more than one meter of water had leaked into the ship’s bottom, and only one water pump on the ship was in working order. Rather than wait for the Mary Celeste to sink, the captain may have ordered everyone to get into the lifeboat and use it to reach the safety of the nearby island of Santa Maria.

[LISTENING]
None of these theories about what happened to the people on board the Mary Celeste is very convincing.
First, the pirate theory. When pirates captured sailors, the main reason was usually so the pirates could later demand money in exchange for releasing the sailors. However, no one ever came forward to demand money for the captain and the sailors of the Mary Celeste. Additionally, almost nothing from the Mary Celeste was missing. It’s highly unlikely that pirates would capture the crew and demand no money, or that pirates would leave behind all the valuables on board the ship.
About the second theory and the flammable liquid; there is very little evidence that the barrels on board the Mary Celeste had actually leaked the liquid and created a danger of explosion. You see, when this type of liquid leaks, it produces a very strong smell, and the smell lingers for a long time. Remember the sailors from the passing ship who discovered the abandoned Mary Celeste floating in the ocean? If there had been a leak, the smell would have stayed around for a while, and those sailors would have noticed it. They made careful records of what they discovered on the abandoned ship, but they did not mention there was any smell.
Third, although some water had leaked into the ship’s bottom, the Mary Celeste was clearly capable of traveling for at least a few days since it was still floating when it was discovered. The crew members on the Mary Celeste were very experienced sailors. They would have recognized the ship was still in good enough shape to sail to the nearby island of Santa Maria. They would not have abandoned the ship and used a small lifeboat. That would have been much riskier than staying on the ship.