[READING]
Most people in the United States buy their food from large grocery store chains, and these stores buy from large, industrial farms that transport their products all over North America. A typical shopper in a typical grocery store is likely to buy fresh fruits and vegetables that were grown thousands of miles away. This system is clearly bad for consumers, who would be better served if they bought food raised by local producers in stores that were locally owned.
Locally grown food tastes better and is more nutritious. Fruits and vegetables from huge, distant, industrial farms are selectively bred to withstand the long trip from farm to store without spoiling and to be big and colorful so as to stand out visually in big grocery stores; taste and nutrition are not considered as important. Local farmers, on the other hand, can get their product to market quickly, while it is still fresh and attractive, without artificial breeding. Thus, they are able to provide fruits and vegetables that have outstanding taste and nutritional value.
Buying locally grown food is better for the environment. Food in many grocery stores travels an average of 1,500 miles from where it is grown, using large amounts of fuel. Buying locally grown products conserves fuel by significantly cutting transportation, and thus reduces pollution.
Finally, whether for food or for other products, buying locally is better for the local economy. A large national corporation has no genuine connection to a town. Local businesses, on the other hand, are more likely to sponsor community events and support local civic organizations than a national business chain. So, when local merchants are patronized, the money is kept in the community.

[LISTENING]
Benefits of buying food locally might seem persuasive at first glance, but the arguments don't really hold up.
First, while locally grown foods may taste better in some cases, with advances in agricultural science in recent years, both in crop breeding and in better methods of storage and transit, industrially produced fruits and vegetables have improved greatly in taste; and with respect to nutrition, again, because of advances in agricultural science, there's very little difference in the vitamins and minerals obtained from locally grown fruits and vegetables compared to those grown on a large scale.
Second, transportation costs and resources aren't the only environmental considerations. You can actually argue that it's best to obtain food from the places where the particular products grow best. This way, you use the least amount of farmland possible and get the greatest quantity of the product. Doing this means we can slow down converting forested areas and other land into farmland. And that helps the environment, and it means you get more product for the same cost of growing.
Third, the economic benefits to the community of buying locally are tiny compared with the opportunities made available by larger stores. Most local businesses are small. They don't usually have the money or space to expand and provide lots of new jobs in the community. A large corporation or chain store, on the other hand, can offer many more and varied new jobs to community residents. This means many more people have a chance to earn money and that money goes back to the community and taxes and their spending.