[READING]
The American burying beetle was once a common insect in the United States, with populations found in most states a hundred years ago. Since that time, the population of the American burying beetle has been steadily declining; right now, populations remain in only a handful of states. There are several theories about why the species has almost been wiped out.  
One theory is that the species is declining because of pesticides that are used by farmers. Farmers use pesticides to protect crops from insects that, unlike the American burying beetle, are harmful to their crops. Even though burying beetles are not the targets of these agricultural pesticides, the pesticides leak into the ground and may be poisoning the beetles living there. 
A second theory suggests that development of more and more land in the United States by humans over the past century has destroyed the habitats that support the American burying beetle populations. The American burying beetles bury their food in the ground in order to feed their young. They need a habitat where the soil is soft enough for them to dig and burrow, and where the appropriate food sources are plentiful. However, human development has broken up the continuous habitats suitable for the beetle into smaller, fragmented areas. Habitat fragmentation could well be the cause of the American burying beetle's decline. 
Third, some researchers believe that competition with other animals is the main problem for the beetles. Over the past hundred years, populations of small scavenger mammals have increased in the United States. Some of the small scavenger mammals have the same food sources that the burying beetles do; the burying beetle may be dying out because it is losing an increasingly intense competition for food.

[LISTENING]
The decline of the American burying beetle is very mysterious. Unfortunately, none of the theories you read about can explain why the species is dying out.
First, the pesticide theory is appealing because pesticides definitely can have a powerful effect on the environment. But in the Northeastern U.S, the decline of the beetle population began several years before the first chemical pesticides were introduced there. And in some areas of the mid-Western United States, the beetle population survived for 20 or 30 years after chemical pesticides became widely used there. So, in at least two regions of the United States, which once had very large beetle populations, the pesticides don't seem to have a direct link with the beetle's decline.
Second, there's a problem with the development theory as well. In the United States, there are a number of beetle species related to the American burying beetle that have a very similar mode of life and live in very similar habitats. The habitats of these related beetle species have also been fragmented by development. However, their populations have not declined significantly. If habitat fragmentation hasn't caused a decline in the related beetle species, there's no reason why it should have caused the decline of the American burying beetle.
Third, in thinking about that competition theory, it's important to consider some special characteristics of the burying beetle that the reading did not mention. The burying beetles have a powerful sense of smell, and they can locate new food sources very quickly and from long distances. Once the beetles find the food, they spray it with a special chemical that blocks its smell. This smell blocking chemical keeps animals such as the scavenger mammals from being able to find the food. With these important advantages over other species, it doesn't seem likely that increased numbers of competitors could affect the beetles so drastically.