[READING]
In the last century, the number of wild tigers has dropped significantly. If this trend continues, tigers will soon become completely extinct in the wild. Several factors have contributed to the disappearance of wild tigers.
Poaching: One of the major threats to wild tigers is poaching, or the illegal hunting of animals. There is a high demand for tiger skin and body parts, which can be sold as ornaments or decorations and which are also used in some traditional medicines. Unfortunately, it is nearly impossible to stop or punish the poachers, who typically hunt tigers at night to avoid detection. Because selling tiger parts is an extremely lucrative business, and because they know that the likelihood of facing legal consequences is small, poachers are willing to take the chance and hunt tigers.
Conflicts with Local Inhabitants: Another problem threatening the wild tigers is conflicts with local inhabitants. Many tiger habitats are in close proximity to agricultural lands. Sometimes, tigers leave their habitats to seek food, and people may go into tigers' territories as well. There have been many incidents in which tigers attacked and killed farm animals. As a result, local inhabitants often dislike tigers. Seeing them as pests affecting their livelihood, some people poison tigers.
Habitat Fragmentation: Another threat has to do with the breakup of the tiger's habitat by human activities. Much of the tiger's original habitat has been cleared to make room for roads and buildings, leaving only small, isolated, fragmented areas of forest. Many of the world's remaining tigers now live in such forest fragments, where they are vulnerable to starvation. As large predators, tigers require a lot of food. Each tiger must feed on one deer-sized animal per week. In the isolated areas where wild tigers are now often confined, prey populations may quickly become too small, causing tigers to starve.  

[LISTENING]
Sadly, as you read, tigers are currently facing several threats to their existence. However, there are reasons to be optimistic that these threats can be lessened.
First, poaching has definitely been a serious problem, but there's a promising, new way to reduce it. In some regions, small aircraft without human pilots inside, controlled from the ground, and inexpensive to operate are being used to monitor tiger habitats from the sky. These aircraft are equipped with sensors that can detect poachers even at night. The aircraft are able to send the information instantly and alert officials of suspicious activity in an area. Officials then know exactly where they must go to stop or arrest poachers.
Second, human tiger conflicts can be reduced if governments and other organizations take steps to keep tigers from threatening people's livelihoods. For example, farmers whose livestock are killed by tigers could receive money to compensate them for the loss. Also, governments could promote tiger habitats as places where tourists can come to observe wild tigers. So, local inhabitants could actually come value the tiger as good for the economy. Tourists coming to see tigers up close will spend money at local businesses. They'll also help create jobs as these tourist operations require local guides as well as other local personnel to build, maintain, and run their facilities.
Last, it's true that habitat fragmentation threatens wild tigers. However, to make sure that tigers don't get trapped in areas where there isn't enough food, some countries have built wildlife corridors. Wildlife corridors are strips of forest specifically grown between two forest fragments to create a connection between the two fragments. These corridors allow tigers to travel from one forest fragment to another, so that not too many tigers are trapped in an isolated area. So, if a tiger is having trouble finding prey in one area, it can go to an adjacent forested area and search out prey there.