[READING]
Mangroves are trees that grow along coastlines and in muddy areas containing salt water in tropical and subtropical areas. Mangroves offer many benefits to humans and the ecosystem where they grow, such as providing barriers against tropical storms. A substantial proportion of the world's mangrove forests have been destroyed in the past few decades. Much of the destruction is due to damage caused by animals or human enterprises such as shrimp farms. Fortunately, experts have recently identified some ways to protect mangroves from animals and shrimp farmers, as well as methods to help restore areas where mangroves have been damaged. 
First, although some animals are known to damage mangroves, they can be controlled. Studies show that crabs, for example, like to feed on mangrove seedlings, eating most of the seeds produced by some species of mangroves. One proposal to combat this threat is to remove crabs from vulnerable mangrove areas and prevent them from returning by covering mangrove seedlings with a mesh, or web, that the crabs cannot penetrate. 
Second, governments have been successful in preventing destruction of mangroves by shrimp farmers. In one country where it is estimated that over half of the country's mangroves were destroyed in order to create new shrimp farms, farmers were required to shift to different methods of shrimp farming that do not involve cutting down mangroves. One such method utilizes wetland areas that are some distance away from mangroves, but are still suitable for raising shrimp.  
Third, scientists have recently focused their efforts on techniques to help restore mangrove populations in areas that have sustained severe damage. An example of such techniques includes improving the quality of soil in areas that once had thriving mangrove populations that later became damaged or disappeared. Since soil quality impacts growth, improving soil quality will definitely help mangrove populations restore themselves.

[LISTENING]
The efforts you read about have drawbacks. And here's why.
First, crabs are not a serious problem for mangroves. And removing crabs is not a good idea. Crabs and mangroves have evolved together for millions of years, and they help each other in important ways. For instance, crabs indirectly provide mangroves with access to certain nutrients. You see, when searching for food, crabs dig deep holes in the ground near mangrove roots. The holes that the crabs make allow the underground mangrove roots easier access to nutrients that mangroves need to grow. So, despite causing some damage, crabs provide crucial benefits to mangroves and should not be kept away from mangroves.
Second, setting up shrimp farms some distance away from mangroves can still be quite harmful. Shrimp farms typically discharge a lot of wastewater. This is polluted water that is a byproduct of the farming process and has to be removed from the farms. Typically, this wastewater is pumped into nearby rivers or streams. This dirty, polluted water sometimes flows into coastal areas where mangroves are growing. This can cause water quality in coastal areas to decline significantly, which is harmful for the entire ecosystem there, including mangroves. Thus, keeping shrimp farms at a distance doesn't really solve the problem.
Third, it's actually very difficult to achieve good soil quality in areas where mangroves once thrived, but then disappeared. You see, living mangroves have specialized roots that provide the soil with oxygen. The oxygen that mangrove roots provide, in turn, allows the mangrove trees to thrive. But once mangroves die, the soil loses much of its oxygen. Once the oxygen is gone, it's very difficult to replace it. And it's difficult for new mangrove trees to start growing in such soil.