[READING]
When oil-transporting ships have accidents, massive oil spills can occur with damaging consequences for the ocean environment. There have been proposals to clean up oil spills by promoting the growth of certain naturally occurring ocean bacteria. The bacteria feed on molecules found in crude oil, breaking them down into simpler compounds that do not harm the environment. Some critics argue, however, that using bacteria to clean up oil spills would be problematic, for several reasons.
One of the critics' concerns is that a bacterial population, dramatically increased by feeding on an oil spill, will stay in the area after the spill is cleaned up. The bacteria could come to dominate the area, competing with native plants and animals for food and sunlight. The negative environmental effects of this could be significant.
Second, bacteria at the oil spill site must be given extra nutrients (such as nitrogen and phosphorus) in order to grow, reproduce, and do their job at an efficient rate. The problem is that the extra nutrients can leak outside of the area affected by the spill, and they may attract and feed other marine organisms. This can result in extremely rapid population growth among the other organisms, upsetting the balance of marine ecosystems near the spill.
Third, if oil-transporting companies start to believe bacteria can cheaply and efficiently clean up oil spills, they might start to pay less attention to spill prevention. This could lead to spills becoming more frequent. More frequent spills could cause lasting environmental damage because some harmful oil components are too complex for the bacteria to break down, and these components remain in the ocean even after a bacterial cleanup.

[LISTENING]
Each of the concerns you just read about can be dismissed in light of other Information.
First, it's very unlikely that the bacteria will come to dominate the ocean ecosystem after the spill is cleaned up. These bacteria have evolved to feed on one thing, oil. They naturally thrive only in ocean habitats that contain oil from natural sources in an oil spill situation. Once the bacteria have broken down the oil into harmless chemicals, they quickly die off, since their main food source crude oil has been depleted.
Second, it's true that nutrients used to support oil-eating bacteria might upset the balance of the ecosystem. However, you have to compare this risk with the damage that is certain to take place in the ecosystem. If we fail to use bacteria and rely on more traditional methods of cleaning up oil spills, the traditional methods are pretty slow and allow toxic oil to sit in the ecosystem long enough to wipe out much of the life in it. This damage is typically long-lasting. By comparison, damage caused by an excess of nutrients is typically not as great. And the affected ecosystem reestablishes its old balance faster.
Finally, I'm pretty sure oil transporting companies will remain very careful about preventing spills; even though the bacteria can make the cleanup of the spill faster and cheaper, there are other costs the companies have to cover when a spill occurs. For example, millions may have to be spent compensating local fisheries for the time. They cannot fish in the affected waters. There may be other penalties and payments to compensate for potential loss of tourism and damage to other industries in the area. So, the companies will still have plenty of motivation to keep very strict safety precautions to prevent oil spills.