[READING]
The global clothing manufacturing industry produces over 100 billion garments (pieces of clothing) each year. Much of this clothing is eventually discarded by consumers, causing economic waste and environmental harm. Recycling clothing rather than throwing it out could reduce this harm; the fabric of old clothes could be recycled to make new clothes. But there are several challenges when it comes to clothes recycling.
Collection of Old Clothing: First, most people are unwilling to make an inconvenient trip to a collection point for old clothing that will get recycled. The alternative is to install enough collection boxes for everyone to have one nearby, but installing and maintaining many collection boxes is expensive. Many clothing recycling services have been forced out of business by these high costs. As a result, only 15 percent of clothing is actually recycled, making it impossible for clothing recycling to have any significant impact.
Transport of Old Clothing: Second, after old clothing is collected, it has to travel a long way to be recycled. Just as garments made in a given location are sold to consumers around the world, old clothing collected from consumers must be transported great distances in trucks and ships before it reaches a new manufacturer. This transportation requires the use of enormous amounts of highly polluting fossil fuels, a serious environmental cost. The negative environmental impact of transportation undermines the claim that recycling clothes is environmentally friendly.
Recycling Process: Finally, the most common method of recycling old clothing, called fiber-to-fiber recycling, has a significant drawback. In fiber-to-fiber recycling, fabric (most commonly cotton or polyester) is separated into tiny fibers that are then used to make new fabric. Unfortunately, every time this process is repeated, the fibers are damaged a little, becoming shorter and weaker, making the fibers less and less suitable for creating fabric for new clothes.  

[LISTENING]
Recycling clothing is a good idea. There is an answer or a solution for each of the objections and problems you just read about.
First. Yes. The way old clothes used to be collected was not convenient for consumers. And installing more collection boxes was costly. But today, there are new ways of collecting old clothes. These days, retail stores that sell clothes are encouraging their customers to bring old clothes into the stores. If customers bring in their old clothes, they get a discount when purchasing new garments. The collected old clothes get sold to recycling facilities. In this approach, everyone benefits; retailers attract more customers to their stores, consumers get a discount, and the supply of clothes for recycling is increased.
Second, okay. Recycling old clothes produces pollution, but making brand new clothes creates even more environmental problems. Let's consider cotton. Lots of clothing is made from cotton, a plant; to grow cotton to make new clothes, farmers use chemicals, fertilizers, and pesticides in their fields. These chemicals pollute the environment and harm both animals and humans, and that's not all. Cotton needs lots of water to grow. In many areas where cotton is grown, huge amounts of the available water are diverted to cotton fields. This causes severe water shortages. So, you see, the alternative to clothes' recycling harms the environment even more. It creates chemical pollution and water shortages.
Third, it's true that conventional fiber-to-fiber recycling reduces the quality of fabric. But there are other newer technologies like polymer recycling. You see, fibers are made up of chemical molecules called polymers. In polymer recycling, cotton or polyester fibers are broken down into these chemical molecules. The molecules, the polymers, are then built back up into fibers that are of the same quality as those in the original material. So, once fibers have been damaged too much by conventional recycling methods, polymer recycling can be used to restore the quality of the fabric.