[READING]
The modern factory appeared in Britain in about 1750. Before 1750, manufactured goods such as thread and cloth were produced mainly in workers' homes, or cottages--which is why the system is called "cottage production." Business owners supplied workers with raw materials--for example, cotton--and each worker would work at home with simple machinery to produce finished goods in the form of lengths of cotton thread, for which they were paid by the piece. Most cottage workers had their own farms and worked for the business owners only part-time. After 1750, cottage production was largely replaced by factory production. So, what caused the shift to factories? Historians have long debated the primary reason for this change.
One theory is that the move to centralized factories was driven by the new technology. The Industrial Revolution of the eighteenth century is associated with large, complex machines that run on water or steam power. Obviously, such machines could not be used in workers' cottages, so it is tempting to conclude that factories arose because of technological advances.  
Another theory attributes the rise of factories primarily to the strengthening of property rights in Britain in the late seventeenth and early eighteenth centuries. As a result, private property in Britain received much stronger legal protection. This stimulated investment in factories by reassuring business owners that their investments in factory buildings and equipment--and the profits resulting from them--would be safe.
A third explanation is that business owners thought factories would help reduce their overall business expenses by reducing their transportation costs. In the cottage system, business owners had to pay the costs of transporting raw materials to each worker and finished goods back from each worker. Because workers' cottages were often located far apart, these costs could be very high.  

[LISTENING]
You just read three possible explanations for the shift from cottage production to factory production. However, none of the factors these theories focus on can be the primary reason for the rise of factories.
First, early factories were simply places where many workers worked together in an organized way, not places that used complex machines; that came much later. Workers in early factories used the same equipment as the cottage workers. In fact, early factories began to dominate production long before the famous inventions, like the steam engine, were even developed. So, the new technology cannot have caused the move away from cottage production.
Second, property rights. Sure, Britain's strong property rights were favorable to the development of the factory system, but this wasn't enough, in itself, to account for the rise of factories. If it were, the factory system would have developed in other places too. For example, Holland. The Dutch Republic was another place that property owners enjoyed strong legal protections, but no factory system developed there. So, more is needed for the development of a factory system than just strong property laws.
Okay, so what about the idea that business owners wanted to reduce the costs of doing business? Well, it's true that the factory system reduced transportation costs. However, it didn't necessarily reduce the overall costs of running a business. You also have to look at business expenses that increased with the factory system. Factories are expensive to build and operate, and factory workers, unlike cottage workers, need to be supervised. So, you need to hire and pay supervisors. So, it seems unlikely that the desire to reduce business expenses led to the emergence of the factory system.