[READING]
In recent years, a fish species native to Asia called the snakehead fish has been introduced to lakes and rivers in North America. The snakehead threatens North American ecosystems through predation and competition with native species. Several methods for stopping the spread of snakeheads in North America have been used.
First, adopting certain laws may prevent snakeheads from spreading from one body of water to another. People at fish markets almost certainly created the snakehead problem by releasing unsold snakeheads into North American lakes and rivers. Making it illegal to transport and release snakeheads will prevent them from spreading to new waterways and thus will limit the harm this invasive species is doing to North American ecosystems.
Another method of control involves educating North American fishers about the fact that snakeheads might be a worthwhile species to catch. Because the snakehead is rarely part of the North American diet, many American fishers do not know that the fish can be a good food source, so they do not catch them, either for themselves or to make money by selling them. But in Asia, the snakehead is widely sold and consumed. Educating North American fishers about the virtues of snakeheads will encourage the fishers to pay increased attention to these fish, removing them from lakes and rivers in the process.
Finally, scientists are experimenting with different fish poisons to eliminate snakeheads in waters that have large populations of the species. By treating a body of water with toxic chemicals that target fish, scientists should be able to wipe out all of the snakeheads in the water. While this treatment might wipe out many of the native fish as well, the waters can be restocked with new populations of native fish after the treatment.

[LISTENING]
Unfortunately, the methods you just read about are not likely to protect North American ecosystems.
Making it illegal to transport and release live snakeheads may help, but the problem is that snakeheads already in North America can spread from one body of water to another all by themselves. You see, snakeheads differ from most other fish by being able to live and move on land. Snakeheads can get from one lake or pond to another by crossing stretches of land, as long as they remain moist. They do this by wriggling across mud or from puddle to puddle, managing to stay wet for days before reaching a new lake or river. So, snakeheads will spread to new waterways even without humans transporting them.
Second, educating North American fishers about snakeheads in order to get them to catch the species could lead to another problem. You see, when fishers see a benefit to catching certain fish, they often intentionally introduce those fish to other lakes and rivers so that they can catch them there. Fishers who find they enjoy eating snakeheads, or who make money by selling snakeheads, well, those fishers will want to catch more snakeheads, and fishers know they can make that happen by introducing snakeheads to other fishing spots, even illegally. So, fishers who get educated about snakeheads could end up spreading snakeheads, not reducing their numbers.
Lastly, poisoning and then restocking lakes or ponds is not a very good idea. That's because poisoning kills more than just snakeheads and other fish. It also kills many smaller organisms, such as insects and amphibians. These animal populations will not be restocked and often cannot fully recover after poisoning. Also, these smaller animals are actually the food source that many of the native fish need; and without this food source, the fish populations won't do well. So, once we use poison, it's not as easy to restore the ecosystem as the reading suggests.