[READING]
At a sale at a private home in California several years ago, a man purchased a box of photographic negatives stored in envelopes (negatives are photographic images on film or glass from which actual photographs can be made). The negatives dated from the 1920s and showed landscape scenes of the western United States. While the negatives carried no indication of the name of the photographer who created them, some people have concluded that the negatives were in fact made by the landscape photographer Ansel Adams, one of the greatest American photographers of the twentieth century. Several arguments have been offered in support of this idea.
First, the negatives include images of landscape features that Ansel Adams is known to have photographed. One of the negatives shows a large pine tree leaning downward on a cliff. The same distinctively shaped tree appears in another photograph that, without a doubt, was taken by Adams in the 1920s.
Second, the envelopes holding the negatives are numbered and marked with handwritten place names. The handwriting on the envelopes seems to resemble the handwriting of Virginia Adams, Ansel Adams’ wife. Virginia Adams is known to have assisted her husband in his work, so those who believe that Ansel Adams created these negatives have concluded that she helped her husband organize these negatives by numbering them and recording the names of the places where the images were created.
Third, a number of the negatives have been damaged by fire, it is well known that Ansel Adams’ photography studio had a fire that destroyed or damaged nearly a third of his negatives. The fact that some of the negatives bought at the sale have fire damage is consistent with the idea that they once belonged to Ansel Adams.

[LISTENING]
The readings' arguments that the photographic negatives were created by Ansel Adams are not convincing. It's true that the negatives have some similarities to Adams' work, but there are explanations for those similarities. 
First, the leaning pine tree that appears in one of the negatives. Well, this tree is not just a random tree that Ansel Adams took a liking to. In fact, this tree is a famous landmark in Yosemite National Park. The park had hundreds of thousands of visitors in the 1920s, and the pine tree captured on the negative happened to be one of its most visited sites. Because the tree was such a popular symbol of Yosemite, a lot of photographers, not just Ansel Adams, are known to have taken photographs of it. 
Second, the handwriting on the envelopes. As you read, some envelopes have a place name written on them, for example, names of famous Yosemite landmarks. But the person who wrote the names of the locations on the envelopes did not spell some of them correctly. Now, Virginia Adams grew up in Yosemite. Her father was an artist who had an art studio in the park, so she knew Yosemite very well. Does it really make sense that she would misspell place names familiar to her since childhood?
Third, about fire damage to the negatives. The process that photographers used to create negatives in the 1920s was dangerous. It involved using highly flammable chemicals, and these chemicals could cause a fire to start very easily. So a fire in a photographer's studio was not an unusual occurrence in those days, and a great number of professional photographers had work that was damaged by fire.