[READING]
The cave paintings of Lascaux (in southwestern France) date to around 15,000 B.C.E. and are among ‎the finest examples of prehistoric art known. Ever since the paintings were discovered, scholars have ‎puzzled over their purpose. According to one widely discussed interpretation, the paintings were ‎made to ensure a successful hunt. Several considerations support this view.‎
In the first place, there is the animal subject matter of the paintings. The cave images are almost ‎exclusively of large mammals. These animals include bison, wild horses, and now-extinct aurochs (wild ‎cattle), which are known to have been hunted by the Paleolithic people who created the paintings. A ‎number of the animals are shown wounded by arrows and spears. There are also depictions of what ‎appears to be the seasonal migrations of these animals that would have been very important to ‎prehistoric hunters.‎
Second, the depictions of humans in the cave paintings include human figures that appear to have ‎animal heads. These could be hunters: hunters in some traditional cultures are known to disguise ‎themselves with animal heads so that they are not recognized by the animals they are hunting.‎
Third, many cultures hold the belief that by depicting an event one can bring about its reality. ‎Throughout history – prehistoric, ancient, and modern – images have been regarded as more than ‎mere decorative representations; they are seen as having magical power to affect reality. Thus, it is ‎reasonable to suppose that the hunters who created the Lascaux cave paintings believed that by ‎painting successful hunts, they were ensuring that real hunts would be successful.‎
	
[LISTENING]
The truth is we don't know why the Lascaux cave paintings were created. The reading selection ‎suggests that ensuring successful hunts is the answer. But while this view is popular, there is little ‎actual support for it.‎
First of all, the animals in the paintings. Yes, some of them were hunted by the cave painters, but ‎many of the animals painted were probably not hunted. For example, rhinoceroses and cats. And ‎while archaeological evidence indicates that reindeer were the most hunted animals, Reindeer aren't ‎painted at all. Moreover, only a small percentage of the animals are shown wounded by spears or ‎arrows. So they cannot support the view that the cave paintings were specifically associated with ‎hunting. ‎
Second, the human figures in the paintings. Some tribal hunters may have used animal heads while ‎hunting, but the human figures with the animal heads in the cave paintings are not shown hunting, ‎they're not even standing up. Instead, the figures are shown in a horizontal position on their backs like ‎they were asleep. And the figures are not presented with other images that might help us interpret ‎them. So we just don't know what these pictures are about.‎
Third, the fact that images are often considered to have magical properties doesn't necessarily mean ‎the purpose of the magic was to ensure successful hunting. The last co cave images may have had a ‎different type of magical use. For example, many cultures believe that the spirits of their ancestors live ‎on in some animals around them. People in such cultures believe they can communicate with ancestor ‎spirits through ceremonies in which images of the animals play an important role. The last co cave ‎paintings may have played a role in these kinds of magical ceremonies.‎

