[READING]
Once known as the roadside attraction Mystery Hill, America’s Stonehenge in Salem, New Hampshire, includes mysterious rock formations, a warren of man-made caves and chambers, and stone walls that stretch across the hilltop. The origin and purpose of the structures have been hotly debated among scholars and amateur sleuths for years, raising far more questions than answers. Although there’s no doubt that a native civilization made use of this area, it must be some pre-Columbian, migratory Europeans who constructed this place for religious rituals and ceremonies.
First, the arrangement of stones at Mystery Hill is similar to that of some stone structures that are well known in Europe. For example, Stonehenge, an ancient monument in England, includes large stones that align with astronomical events, such as the position of the Sun at sunrise on the longest day of the year. Certain stones at Mystery Hill align with the same events in precisely the same way. This same arrangement at both locations suggests that the builders of Mystery Hill were inspired by European monuments.
Second, researchers discovered a large flat stone at Mystery Hill that appears to have an early type of European writing carved into it. The particular writing system, consisting of straight lines, was used by Irish people in Europe, starting about 1,500 years ago. The presence of a stone containing very old European writing at Mystery Hill suggests that Europeans were present at the site long ago.
Finally, archaeologists determined that the large stones at Mystery Hill were quarried, or cut from the ground, and then significantly altered by hammering and burning well over 1,000 years ago. The way in which stones at Mystery Hill were quarried and the methods used to reshape them are similar to quarrying activities and stoneworking methods that were widely practiced in Europe in the distant past. Such methods are not generally associated with ancient Native Americans.

[LISTENING]
Most archaeologists don't think the structures at Mystery Hill were built by ancient Europeans. Here's why they aren't convinced. 
First, it's true that the stones at Mystery Hill are arranged in the same way as stones at European sites. But here's the problem. The upright standing stones we see at Mystery Hill today are probably no longer in their original positions. You see, the Mystery Hill site belonged to a private owner in the 1930s and historians suspect that the owner moved many of the stones around. In fact, the owner may have been trying to make the site look more like England's famous Stonehenge. By doing that, the owner probably hoped to attract more tourists to the site and make a financial profit. 
Second, what about those lines carved into the flat stone? Well, if you're not an expert, a few straight lines might look like a simple writing system. But that's not conclusive evidence. Most archaeologists don't believe that those marks are actually ancient European writing. Those marks are probably just some accidental scratches made by farming equipment since the area was used for farming for a long time. You know, a metal plow rode over the stone several times and left some scratches behind. 
Finally, even though the type of quarrying done at Mystery Hill suggests European work to some people, archaeologists have found other ancient objects at Mystery Hill that were clearly made by Native Americans. Specifically, they found smaller stone objects such as jewelry that Native Americans wore as decoration. When archaeologists took a closer look, the jewelry had the same type of tool marks as the large stones. This suggests that the same kind of hammering tool was used to work both the large stone structures and the jewelry. This is strong evidence that Native Americans created the smaller objects as well as the large stones. 