[READING]
Palm oil, a liquid produced by palm trees and used for cooking and other purposes, has become very ‎popular in recent years. As a result, the palm oil industry has had a dramatic impact on the economies ‎and landscapes of countries in which it operates. When asked to make a recommendation about ‎whether expanding palm oil production even more would be good or bad for the environment and the ‎economy, many experts have stated that palm oil production has several positive effects and should ‎be expanded.‎
First, the experts point out that palm tree farming helps preserve the world’s forests. Palm trees have ‎a very high oil yield – far higher than that of other crops. For this reason, farming palm trees requires ‎less land than farming other crops to produce the same economic value. Since palm tree farms require ‎relatively little land (compared with many other crops), palm tree plantations require the clearing of ‎smaller areas of forest than many other crops would. In other words, palm tree farms cause less ‎deforestation and therefore have a lesser negative impact on the environment than other types of ‎crops.‎
Second, palm oil is sometimes used to produce biodiesel, a fuel for motor vehicles. Using biodiesel in ‎vehicle engines create fewer carbon emissions than using traditional fossil fuels does. Carbon ‎emissions are known to contribute to climate change. Biodiesel from palm oil, when used as an ‎alternative to fossil fuels, can help reduce this effect.‎
Third, palm oil production helps reduce poverty among small-scale farmers. About 50 percent to 70 ‎percent of land used for farming in palm-oil-producing countries is actually cleared by small-scale, low-‎income family farmers. Growing palm trees is usually more profitable for such farmers than growing ‎other crops, and it has in many cases helped improve the farmers’ standard of living. ‎

[LISTENING]
Producing palm oil may have some benefits, but it also has some very serious negative effects and ‎should not be expanded. ‎
First, it's true that palm trees require relatively less land than some other crops. However, that doesn't ‎mean that palm oil farming is helping us preserve the world's forests. You see palm oil has become ‎extremely desirable for use in food and cosmetics products. Much more desirable than other ‎vegetable oils. As a result, the worldwide demand for palm oil has grown very fast in recent years. To ‎keep up with the growing demand, Farmers have to clear more and more forested land. In just one ‎country, An area of forest equivalent to about 7000 square meters is cleared every minute to make ‎room for the palm trees. In short, the growing demand for palm oil has led to an increased rate of ‎deforestation worldwide. ‎
Second, using palm oil to make biodiesel. It's true that using biodiesel in vehicle engines produces ‎fewer emissions than using other fuels. However, the processes involved in growing the palms ‎generate a lot of additional carbon emissions. To prepare land for palm tree farming, Farmers have to ‎clear the land first. That means that they burn the vegetation that existed on the land before. This ‎includes burning plant material called peat. ‎
Third, it's true that small scale family farmers clear a lot of land to start palm tree farms. But these ‎small scale farmers often don't control the farms for very long. Large scale farming companies often ‎see a great commercial opportunity in palm growing. So they obtain the land and the farms for ‎themselves and start controlling the profits. The small scale farmers lose control and often get very ‎little in return.‎

