[READING]
The yellow crazy ant is one of the world's most destructive invasive species (species that are not native ‎to an area but rather introduced to it).It has spread to many regions of Earth and caused great ‎damage to native ecosystems. In recent decades, the crazy ant has invaded part of a unique palm ‎forest on one of the Seychelles Islands off the coast of Africa. Some strategies are being considered to ‎stop the ant from spreading farther and damaging the unique ecosystem of the palm forest.‎
One of the strategies proposed to stop the ants is to use traps containing a low concentration of ‎chemicals that are toxic to the ants. These ant traps have been successfully used in other locations, ‎such as an island near Australia, where up to 99 percent of the invasive ant population has been killed ‎by traps.‎
Another strategy would be to cut down broad-leaved trees, which are the ants favorite habitat. Broad-‎leaved trees host a type of insect that provides food (a sugary substance) for the yellow crazy ants. ‎The broad-leaved trees are not native to the palm forest; they were introduced there recently. ‎Removing the trees would not damage the palm forest ecosystem, but it would reduce the extent of ‎the habitat preferred by the invasive ants, which might reduce their population.‎
Finally, it has been noted that ant populations are significantly denser near areas with human activity. ‎Recently, a sharp increase in yellow crazy ants has been observed at one edge of the palm forest ‎where a new visitor center was built, which suggests that more ants were transported to the area with ‎construction material used for the center and that the ants have been eating food left behind by ‎visitors there. Limiting human activity near the palm forest could help reduce ant populations. ‎

[LISTENING]
Unfortunately, the suggestions you read about are unlikely to work In this case. ‎
First of all, using toxic ant traps would cause some unintended harm. You see these traps do not ‎differentiate between the yellow crazy ants and other native species of ants. That means that the ‎native ants can be harmed by the traps. The island near Australia you read about does not have any ‎native ants. So no unintended harm was done there. But in the palm forest on the Seychelles islands, ‎there are native ant species present that we want to protect and these ants would certainly be killed ‎by the toxic traps. ‎
Second, cutting down broad leaved trees might not solve the problem. You see yellow crazy ants can ‎thrive in several different kinds of habitats. Yes, they thrive in a habitat with broad leafed trees. ‎However, they also do well in habitats like open areas with increased sunlight. The trouble is if we cut ‎down the broad leaf trees, we would create areas of increased sunlight inside the palm forest. So in ‎other words, if we cut down broad leaved trees we might destroy one type of habitat that the ants ‎like. But we'll be creating a new habitat that is also very friendly to the yellow crazy ants. So we won't ‎get rid of the ants that way. ‎
Finally, limiting human activity around the forest might slow down the ants spread a little, but it might ‎lead to a serious economic problem. You see, the island's Palm Forest is the region's main tourist ‎attraction. And the unique trees and animals that live in the palm forest attract not just tourists but ‎also scientists who conduct studies on the region's rare species. In fact, tourism and visits from ‎scientists are the most important sources of income for the local people. Therefore, trying to limit ‎human presence around the forest would negatively affect the economy of the whole region.‎